§ 478.141 General.
With the exception of §§ 478.32(a)(9) and (d)(9) and 478.99(c)(9), the provisions of this part shall not apply with respect to:

a.The transportation, shipment, receipt, possession, or importation of any firearm or ammunition imported for, sold or shipped to, or issued for the use of, the United States or any department or agency thereof or any State or any department, agency, or political subdivision thereof.

b.The shipment or receipt of firearms or ammunition when sold or issued by the Secretary of the Army pursuant to section 4308 of Title 10, U.S.C., and the transportation of any such firearm or ammunition carried out to enable a person, who lawfully received such firearm or ammunition from the Secretary of the Army, to engage in military training or in competitions.

c.The shipment, unless otherwise prohibited by the Act or any other Federal law, by a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer to a member of the U.S. Armed Forces on active duty outside the United States or to clubs, recognized by the Department of Defense, whose entire membership is composed of such members of the U.S. Armed Forces, and such members or clubs may receive a firearm or ammunition determined by the Director to be generally recognized as particularly suitable for sporting purposes and intended for the personal use of such member or club. Before making a shipment of firearms or ammunition under the provisions of this paragraph, a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer may submit a written request, in duplicate, to the Director for a determination by the Director whether such shipment would constitute a violation of the Act or any other Federal law, or whether the firearm or ammunition is considered by the Director to be generally recognized as particularly suitable for sporting purposes.

d.The transportation, shipment, receipt, possession, or importation of any antique firearm.

§ 478.142 Effect of pardons and expunctions of convictions.
a.A pardon granted by the President of the United States regarding a Federal conviction for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year shall remove any disability which otherwise would be imposed by the provisions of this part with respect to that conviction.

b.A pardon granted by the Governor of a State or other State pardoning authority or by the pardoning authority of a foreign jurisdiction with respect to a conviction, or any expunction, reversal, setting aside of a conviction, or other proceeding rendering a conviction nugatory, or a restoration of civil rights shall remove any disability which otherwise would be imposed by the provisions of this part with respect to the conviction, unless:

1.The pardon, expunction, setting aside, or other proceeding rendering a conviction nugatory, or restoration of civil rights expressly provides that the person may not ship, transport, possess or receive firearms; or

2.The pardon, expunction, setting aside, or other proceeding rendering a conviction nugatory, or restoration of civil rights did not fully restore the rights of the person to possess or receive firearms under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred.

§ 478.143 Relief from disabilities incurred by indictment.
A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, licensed dealer, or licensed collector who is indicted for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year may, notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, continue operations pursuant to his existing license during the term of such indictment and until any conviction pursuant to the indictment becomes final: Provided, That if the term of the license expires during the period between the date of the indictment and the date the conviction thereunder becomes final, such importer, manufacturer, dealer, or collector must file a timely application for the renewal of his license in order to continue operations. Such application shall show that the applicant is under indictment for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year.

§ 478.144 Relief from disabilities under the Act.
a.Any person may make application for relief from the disabilities under section 922 (g) and (n) of the Act (see § 478.32).

b.An application for such relief shall be filed, in triplicate, with the Director. It shall include the information required by this section and such other supporting data as the Director and the applicant deem appropriate.

c.Any record or document of a court or other government entity or official required by this paragraph to be furnished by an applicant in support of an application for relief shall be certified by the court or other government entity or official as a true copy. An application shall include:

1.In the case of an applicant who is an individual, a written statement from each of 3 references, who are not related to the applicant by blood or marriage and have known the applicant for at least 3 years, recommending the granting of relief;

2.Written consent to examine and obtain copies of records and to receive statements and information regarding the applicant's background, including records, statements and other information concerning employment, medical history, military service, and criminal record;

3.In the case of an applicant under indictment, a copy of the indictment or information;

4.In the case of an applicant having been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year, a copy of the indictment or information on which the applicant was convicted, the judgment of conviction or record of any plea of nolo contendere or plea of guilty or finding of guilt by the court, and any pardon, expunction, setting aside or other record purporting to show that the conviction was rendered nugatory or that civil rights were restored;

5.In the case of an applicant who has been adjudicated a mental defective or committed to a mental institution, a copy of the order of a court, board, commission, or other lawful authority that made the adjudication or ordered the commitment, any petition that sought to have the applicant so adjudicated or committed, any medical records reflecting the reasons for commitment and diagnoses of the applicant, and any court order or finding of a court, board, commission, or other lawful authority showing the applicant's discharge from commitment, restoration of mental competency and the restoration of rights;

6.In the case of an applicant who has been discharged from the Armed Forces under dishonorable conditions, a copy of the applicant's summary of service record (Department of Defense Form 214), charge sheet (Department of Defense Form 458), and final court martial order;

7.In the case of an applicant who, having been a citizen of the United States, has renounced his or her citizenship, a copy of the formal renunciation of nationality before a diplomatic or consular officer of the United States in a foreign state or before an officer designated by the Attorney General when the United States was in a state of war (see 8 U.S.C. 1481(a) (5) and (6)); and

8.In the case of an applicant who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence, a copy of the indictment or information on which the applicant was convicted, the judgment of conviction or record of any plea of nolo contendere or plea of guilty or finding of guilt by the court, and any pardon, expunction, setting aside or other record purporting to show that the conviction was rendered nugatory or that civil rights were restored.

d.The Director may grant relief to an applicant if it is established to the satisfaction of the Director that the circumstances regarding the disability, and the applicant's record and reputation, are such that the applicant will not be likely to act in a manner dangerous to public safety, and that the granting of the relief would not be contrary to the public interest. The Director will not ordinarily grant relief if the applicant has not been discharged from parole or probation for a period of at least 2 years. Relief will not be granted to an applicant who is prohibited from possessing all types of firearms by the law of the State where such applicant resides.

e.In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, an applicant who has been adjudicated a mental defective or committed to a mental institution will not be granted relief unless the applicant was subsequently determined by a court, board, commission, or other lawful authority to have been restored to mental competency, to be no longer suffering from a mental disorder, and to have had all rights restored.

f.Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application for relief, the applicant shall be notified of the deficiency in the application. If the application is not corrected and returned within 30 days following the date of notification, the application shall be considered as having been abandoned.

g.Whenever the Director grants relief to any person pursuant to this section, a notice of such action shall be promptly published in the Federal Register, together with the reasons therefor.

h.A person who has been granted relief under this section shall be relieved of any disabilities imposed by the Act with respect to the acquisition, receipt, transfer, shipment, transportation, or possession of firearms or ammunition and incurred by reason of such disability.

i.
1.A licensee who incurs disabilities under the Act (see § 478.32(a)) during the term of a current license or while the licensee has pending a license renewal application, and who files an application for removal of such disabilities, shall not be barred from licensed operations for 30 days following the date on which the applicant was first subject to such disabilities (or 30 days after the date upon which the conviction for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year becomes final), and if the licensee files the application for relief as provided by this section within such 30-day period, the licensee may further continue licensed operations during the pendency of the application. A licensee who does not file such application within such 30-day period shall not continue licensed operations beyond 30 days following the date on which the licensee was first subject to such disabilities (or 30 days from the date the conviction for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year becomes final).

2.In the event the term of a license of a person expires during the 30-day period specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, or during the pendency of the application for relief, a timely application for renewal of the license must be filed in order to continue licensed operations. Such license application shall show that the applicant is subject to Federal firearms disabilities, shall describe the event giving rise to such disabilities, and shall state when the disabilities were incurred.

3.A licensee shall not continue licensed operations beyond 30 days following the date the Director issues notification that the licensee's applications for removal of disabilities has been denied.

4.When as provided in this paragraph a licensee may no longer continue licensed operations, any application for renewal of license filed by the licensee during the pendency of the application for removal of disabilities shall be denied by the Director of Industry Operations.

§ 478.145 Research organizations.
The provisions of § 478.98 with respect to the sale or delivery of destructive devices, machine guns, short-barreled shotguns, and short-barreled rifles shall not apply to the sale or delivery of such devices and weapons to any research organization designated by the Director to receive same. A research organization desiring such designation shall submit a letter application, in duplicate, to the Director. Such application shall contain the name and address of the research organization, the names and addresses of the persons directing or controlling, directly or indirectly, the policies and management of such organization, the nature and purpose of the research being conducted, a description of the devices and weapons to be received, and the identity of the person or persons from whom such devices and weapons are to be received.

§ 478.146 Deliveries by mail to certain persons.
The provisions of this part shall not be construed as prohibiting a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer from depositing a firearm for conveyance in the mails to any officer, employee, agent, or watchman who, pursuant to the provisions of section 1715 of title 18, U.S.C., is eligible to receive through the mails pistols, revolvers, and other firearms capable of being concealed on the person, for use in connection with his official duties.

§ 478.147 Return of firearm.
A person not otherwise prohibited by Federal, State or local law may ship a firearm to a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer for any lawful purpose, and, notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the licensed manufacturer, licensed importer, or licensed dealer may return in interstate or foreign commerce to that person the firearm or a replacement firearm of the same kind and type. See § 478.124(a) for requirements of a Form 4473 prior to return. A person not otherwise prohibited by Federal, State or local law may ship a firearm curio or relic to a licensed collector for any lawful purpose, and, notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the licensed collector may return in interstate or foreign commerce to that person the firearm curio or relic.

§ 478.148 Armor piercing ammunition intended for sporting or industrial purposes.
The Director may exempt certain armor piercing ammunition from the requirements of this part. A person who desires to obtain an exemption under this section for any such ammunition which is primarily intended for sporting purposes or intended for industrial purposes, including charges used in oil and gas well perforating devices, shall submit a written request to the Director. Each request shall be executed under the penalties of perjury and contain a complete and accurate description of the ammunition, the name and address of the manufacturer or importer, the purpose of and use for which it is designed and intended, and any photographs, diagrams, or drawings as may be necessary to enable the Director to make a determination. The Director may require that a sample of the ammunition be submitted for examination and evaluation.

§ 478.149 Armor piercing ammunition manufactured or imported for the purpose of testing or experimentation.
The provisions of §§ 478.37 and 478.99(d) with respect to the manufacture or importation of armor piercing ammunition and the sale or delivery of armor piercing ammunition by manufacturers and importers shall not apply to the manufacture, importation, sale or delivery of armor piercing ammunition for the purpose of testing or experimentation as authorized by the Director. A person desiring such authorization to receive armor piercing ammunition shall submit a letter application, in duplicate, to the Director. Such application shall contain the name and addresses of the persons directing or controlling, directly or indirectly, the policies and management of the applicant, the nature or purpose of the testing or experimentation, a description of the armor piercing ammunition to be received, and the identity of the manufacturer or importer from whom such ammunition is to be received. The approved application shall be submitted to the manufacturer or importer who shall retain a copy as part of the records required by subpart H of this part.

§ 478.150 Alternative to NICS in certain geographical locations.
a.The provisions of § 478.102(d)(3) shall be applicable when the Director has certified that compliance with the provisions of § 478.102(a)(1) is impracticable because:

1.The ratio of the number of law enforcement officers of the State in which the transfer is to occur to the number of square miles of land area of the State does not exceed 0.0025;

2.The business premises of the licensee at which the transfer is to occur are extremely remote in relation to the chief law enforcement officer; and

3.There is an absence of telecommunications facilities in the geographical area in which the business premises are located.

b.A licensee who desires to obtain a certification under this section shall submit a written request to the Director. Each request shall be executed under the penalties of perjury and contain information sufficient for the Director to make such certification. Such information shall include statistical data, official reports, or other statements of government agencies pertaining to the ratio of law enforcement officers to the number of square miles of land area of a State and statements of government agencies and private utility companies regarding the absence of telecommunications facilities in the geographical area in which the licensee's business premises are located.

c.For purposes of this section and § 478.129(c), the “chief law enforcement officer” means the chief of police, the sheriff, or an equivalent officer or the designee of any such individual.

§ 478.151 Semiautomatic rifles or shotguns for testing or experimentation.
a.The provisions of § 478.39 shall not apply to the assembly of semiautomatic rifles or shotguns for the purpose of testing or experimentation as authorized by the Director.

b.A person desiring authorization to assemble nonsporting semiautomatic rifles or shotguns shall submit a written request, in duplicate, to the Director. Each such request shall be executed under the penalties of perjury and shall contain a complete and accurate description of the firearm to be assembled, and such diagrams or drawings as may be necessary to enable the Director to make a determination. The Director may require the submission of the firearm parts for examination and evaluation. If the submission of the firearm parts is impractical, the person requesting the authorization shall so advise the Director and designate the place where the firearm parts will be available for examination and evaluation.

§ 478.152 Seizure and forfeiture.
a.Any firearm or ammunition involved in or used in any knowing violation of subsections (a)(4), (a)(6), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), or (k) of section 922 of the Act, or knowing importation or bringing into the United States or any possession thereof any firearm or ammunition in violation of section 922(l) of the Act, or knowing violation of section 924 of the Act, or willful violation of any other provision of the Act or of this part, or any violation of any other criminal law of the United States, or any firearm or ammunition intended to be used in any offense referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, where such intent is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture, and all provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 relating to the seizure, forfeiture, and disposition of firearms, as defined in section 5845(a) of that Code, shall, so far as applicable, extend to seizures and forfeitures under the provisions of the Act: Provided, That upon acquittal of the owner or possessor, or dismissal of the charges against such person other than upon motion of the Government prior to trial, or lapse of or court termination of the restraining order to which he is subject, the seized or relinquished firearms or ammunition shall be returned forthwith to the owner or possessor or to a person delegated by the owner or possessor unless the return of the firearms or ammunition would place the owner or possessor or the delegate of the owner or possessor in violation of law. Any action or proceeding for the forfeiture of firearms or ammunition shall be commenced within 120 days of such seizure.

b.Only those firearms or quantities of ammunition particularly named and individually identified as involved in or used in any violation of the provisions of the Act or this part, or any other criminal law of the United States or as intended to be used in any offense referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, where such intent is demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence, shall be subject to seizure, forfeiture and disposition.

c.The offenses referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for which firearms and ammunition intended to be used in such offenses are subject to seizure and forfeiture are:

1.Any crime of violence, as that term is defined in section 924(c)(3) of the Act;

2.Any offense punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq. ) or the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951 et seq. );

3.Any offense described in section 922(a)(1), 922(a)(3), 922(a)(5), or 922(b)(3) of the Act, where the firearm or ammunition intended to be used in such offense is involved in a pattern of activities which includes a violation of any offense described in section 922(a)(1), 922(a)(3), 922(a)(5), or 922(b)(3) of the Act;

4.Any offense described in section 922(d) of the Act where the firearm or ammunition is intended to be used in such offense by the transferor of such firearm or ammunition;

5.Any offense described in section 922(i), 922(j), 922(l), 922(n), or 924(b) of the Act; and

6.Any offense which may be prosecuted in a court of the United States which involves the exportation of firearms or ammunition.