§ 479.1 General.
This part contains the procedural and substantive requirements relative to the importation, manufacture, making, exportation, identification and registration of, and the dealing in, machine guns, destructive devices and certain other firearms under the provisions of the National Firearms Act (26 U.S.C. Chapter 53).

§ 479.11 Meaning of terms.
When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude other things not enumerated which are in the same general class or are otherwise within the scope thereof.

Antique firearm.
Any firearm not designed or redesigned for using rim fire or conventional center fire ignition with fixed ammunition and manufactured in or before 1898 (including any matchlock, flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type of ignition system or replica thereof, whether actually manufactured before or after the year 1898) and also any firearm using fixed ammunition manufactured in or before 1898, for which ammunition is no longer manufactured in the United States and is not readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade.

Any other weapon.
Any weapon or device capable of being concealed on the person from which a shot can be discharged through the energy of an explosive, a pistol or revolver having a barrel with a smooth bore designed or redesigned to fire a fixed shotgun shell, weapons with combination shotgun and rifle barrels 12 inches or more, less than 18 inches in length, from which only a single discharge can be made from either barrel without manual reloading, and shall include any such weapon which may be readily restored to fire. Such term shall not include a pistol or a revolver having a rifled bore, or rifled bores, or weapons designed, made, or intended to be fired from the shoulder and not capable of firing fixed ammunition.

ATF officer.
An officer or employee of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) authorized to perform any function relating to the administration or enforcement of this part.

Complete muffler or silencer device.
A muffler or silencer that contains all component parts necessary to function, whether or not assembled or operable.

Complete weapon.
A firearm other than a muffler or silencer that contains all component parts necessary to function, whether or not assembled or operable.

Customs officer.
Any officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, any commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the Coast Guard, or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of a customs officer.

Dealer.
Any person, not a manufacturer or importer, engaged in the business of selling, renting, leasing, or loaning firearms and shall include pawnbrokers who accept firearms as collateral for loans.

Destructive device.
(a) Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas (1) bomb, (2) grenade, (3) rocket having a propellent charge of more than 4 ounces, (4) missile having an explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, (5) mine, or (6) similar device; (b) any type of weapon by whatever name known which will, or which may be readily converted to, expel a projectile by the action of an explosive or other propellant, the barrel or barrels of which have a bore of more than one-half inch in diameter, except a shotgun or shotgun shell which the Director finds is generally recognized as particularly suitable for sporting purposes; and (c) any combination of parts either designed or intended for use in converting any device into a destructive device as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this definition and from which a destructive device may be readily assembled. The term shall not include any device which is neither designed or redesigned for use as a weapon; any device, although originally designed for use as a weapon, which is redesigned for use as a signaling, pyrotechnic, line throwing, safety, or similar device; surplus ordnance sold, loaned, or given by the Secretary of the Army under 10 U.S.C. 4684(2), 4685, or 4686, or any device which the Director finds is not likely to be used as a weapon, or is an antique or is a rifle which the owner intends to use solely for sporting purposes.

Director.
The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, the Department of Justice, Washington, DC.

Director, Industry Operations.
The principal regional official responsible for administering regulations in this part.

Director of the Service Center.
A director of an Internal Revenue Service Center in an internal revenue region.

District director.
A district director of the Internal Revenue Service in an internal revenue district.

Executed under penalties of perjury.
Signed with the prescribed declaration under the penalties of perjury as provided on or with respect to the return, form, or other document or, where no form of declaration is prescribed, with the declaration:

“I declare under the penalties of perjury that this—(insert type of document, such as, statement, application, request, certificate), including the documents submitted in support thereof, has been examined by me and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, is true, correct, and complete.”

Exportation.
The severance of goods from the mass of things belonging to this country with the intention of uniting them to the mass of things belonging to some foreign country.

Exporter.
Any person who exports firearms from the United States.

Firearm.
(a) A shotgun having a barrel or barrels of less than 18 inches in length; (b) a weapon made from a shotgun if such weapon as modified has an overall length of less than 26 inches or a barrel or barrels of less than 18 inches in length; (c) a rifle having a barrel or barrels of less than 16 inches in length; (d) a weapon made from a rifle if such weapon as modified has an overall length of less than 26 inches or a barrel or barrels of less than 16 inches in length; (e) any other weapon, as defined in this subpart; (f) a machine gun; (g) a muffler or a silencer for any firearm whether or not such firearm is included within this definition; and (h) a destructive device. The term shall not include an antique firearm or any device (other than a machine gun or destructive device) which, although designed as a weapon, the Director finds by reason of the date of its manufacture, value, design, and other characteristics is primarily a collector's item and is not likely to be used as a weapon. For purposes of this definition, the length of the barrel having an integral chamber(s) on a shotgun or rifle shall be determined by measuring the distance between the muzzle and the face of the bolt, breech, or breech block when closed and when the shotgun or rifle is cocked. The overall length of a weapon made from a shotgun or rifle is the distance between the extreme ends of the weapon measured along a line parallel to the center line of the bore.

Fixed ammunition.
That self-contained unit consisting of the case, primer, propellant charge, and projectile or projectiles.

Frame or receiver.
The term “frame or receiver” shall have the same meaning as in § 478.12 of this subchapter.

Importation.
The bringing of a firearm within the limits of the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction, from a place outside thereof (whether such place be a foreign country or territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States), with intent to unlade. Except that, bringing a firearm from a foreign country or a territory subject to the jurisdiction of the United States into a foreign trade zone for storage pending shipment to a foreign country or subsequent importation into this country, under Title 26 of the United States Code, and this part, shall not be deemed importation.

Importer.
Any person who is engaged in the business of importing or bringing firearms into the United States.

Machine gun.
Any weapon which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot, without manual reloading, by a single function of the trigger. The term shall also include the frame or receiver of any such weapon, any part designed and intended solely and exclusively, or combination of parts designed and intended, for use in converting a weapon into a machine gun, and any combination of parts from which a machine gun can be assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a person. For purposes of this definition, the term “automatically” as it modifies “shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily restored to shoot,” means functioning as the result of a self-acting or self-regulating mechanism that allows the firing of multiple rounds through a single function of the trigger; and “single function of the trigger” means a single pull of the trigger and analogous motions. The term “machine gun” includes a bump-stock-type device, i.e., a device that allows a semi-automatic firearm to shoot more than one shot with a single pull of the trigger by harnessing the recoil energy of the semi-automatic firearm to which it is affixed so that the trigger resets and continues firing without additional physical manipulation of the trigger by the shooter.

Make.
This term and the various derivatives thereof shall include manufacturing (other than by one qualified to engage in such business under this part), putting together, altering, any combination of these, or otherwise producing a firearm.

Manual reloading.
The inserting of a cartridge or shell into the chamber of a firearm either with the hands or by means of a mechanical device controlled and energized by the hands.

Manufacturer.
Any person who is engaged in the business of manufacturing firearms.

Muffler or silencer.
Any device for silencing, muffling, or diminishing the report of a portable firearm, including any combination of parts, designed or redesigned, and intended for the use in assembling or fabricating a firearm silencer or firearm muffler, and any part intended only for use in such assembly or fabrication.

Person.
A partnership, company, association, trust, corporation, including each responsible person associated with such an entity; an estate; or an individual.

Pistol.
A weapon originally designed, made, and intended to fire a projectile (bullet) from one or more barrels when held in one hand, and having (a) a chamber(s) as an integral part(s) of, or permanently aligned with, the bore(s); and (b) a short stock designed to be gripped by one hand and at an angle to and extending below the line of the bore(s).

Privately made firearm (PMF).
The term "privately made firearm (PMF)" shall have the same as meaning as in § 478.11 of this subchapter

Readily.
A process, action, or physical state that is fairly or reasonably efficient, quick, and easy, but not necessarily the most efficient, speediest, or easiest process, action, or physical state. With respect to the classification of firearms, factors relevant in making this determination include the following:

1. Time, i.e., how long it takes to finish the process;

2. Ease, i.e., how difficult it is to do so;

3. Expertise, i.e., what knowledge and skills are required;

4. Equipment, i.e., what tools are required;

5. Parts availability, i.e., whether additional parts are required, and how easily they can be obtained;

6. Expense, i.e., how much it costs;

7. Scope, i.e., the extent to which the subject of the process must be changed to finish it; and

8. Feasibility, i.e., whether the process would damage or destroy the subject of the process, or cause it to malfunction.

Responsible person.
In the case of an unlicensed entity, including any trust, partnership, association, company (including any Limited Liability Company (LLC)), or corporation, any individual who possesses, directly or indirectly, the power or authority to direct the management and policies of the trust or entity to receive, possess, ship, transport, deliver, transfer, or otherwise dispose of a firearm for, or on behalf of, the trust or legal entity. In the case of a trust, those persons with the power or authority to direct the management and policies of the trust include any person who has the capability to exercise such power and possesses, directly or indirectly, the power or authority under any trust instrument, or under State law, to receive, possess, ship, transport, deliver, transfer, or otherwise dispose of a firearm for, or on behalf of, the trust. Examples of who may be considered a responsible person include settlors/grantors, trustees, partners, members, officers, directors, board members, or owners. An example of who may be excluded from this definition of responsible person is the beneficiary of a trust, if the beneficiary does not have the capability to exercise the powers or authorities enumerated in this section.

Revolver.
A projectile weapon, of the pistol type, having a breechloading chambered cylinder so arranged that the cocking of the hammer or movement of the trigger rotates it and brings the next cartridge in line with the barrel for firing.

Rifle.
A weapon designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or redesigned and made or remade to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed cartridge to fire only a single projectile through a rifled bore for each single pull of the trigger, and shall include any such weapon which may be readily restored to fire a fixed cartridge.

Shotgun.
A weapon designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or redesigned and made or remade to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed shotgun shell to fire through a smooth bore either a number of projectiles (ball shot) or a single projectile for each pull of the trigger, and shall include any such weapon which may be readily restored to fire a fixed shotgun shell.

Transfer.
This term and the various derivatives thereof shall include selling, assigning, pledging, leasing, loaning, giving away, or otherwise disposing of. For purposes of this part, the term shall not include the temporary conveyance of a lawfully possessed firearm to a manufacturer or dealer qualified under this part for the sole purpose of repair, identification, evaluation, research, testing, or calibration and return to the same lawful possessor.

United States.
The States and the District of Columbia.

U.S.C.
The United States Code.

Unserviceable firearm.
A firearm which is incapable of discharging a shot by means of an explosive and incapable of being readily restored to a firing condition.

§ 479.21 Forms prescribed.
a.The Director is authorized to prescribe all forms required by this part. All of the information called for in each form shall be furnished as indicated by the headings on the form and the instructions on or pertaining to the form. In addition, information called for in each form shall be furnished as required by this part. Each form requiring that it be executed under penalties of perjury shall be executed under penalties of perjury.

b.Requests for forms should be submitted to the ATF Distribution Center ( http://www.atf.gov ) or made by calling (202) 648-6420.

§ 479.22 Right of entry and examination.
Any ATF officer or employee of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives duly authorized to perform any function relating to the administration or enforcement of this part may enter during business hours the premises (including places of storage) of any importer or manufacturer of or dealer in firearms, to examine any books, papers, or records required to be kept pursuant to this part, and any firearms kept by such importer, manufacturer or dealer on such premises, and may require the production of any books, papers, or records necessary to determine any liability for tax under 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53, or the observance of 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53, and this part.

§ 479.23 Restrictive use of required information.
No information or evidence obtained from an application, registration, or record required to be submitted or retained by a natural person in order to comply with any provision of 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53, or this part or section 207 of the Gun Control Act of 1968 shall be used, directly or indirectly, as evidence against that person in a criminal proceeding with respect to a violation of law occurring prior to or concurrently with the filing of the application or registration, or the compiling of the record containing the information or evidence: Provided, however, That the provisions of this section shall not preclude the use of any such information or evidence in a prosecution or other action under any applicable provision of law with respect to the furnishing of false information.

§ 479.24 Destructive device determination.
The Director shall determine in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 5845(f), whether a device is excluded from the definition of a destructive device. A person who desires to obtain a determination under that provision of law for any device which he believes is not likely to be used as a weapon shall submit a written request, in triplicate, for a ruling thereon to the Director. Each such request shall be executed under the penalties of perjury and contain a complete and accurate description of the device, the name and address of the manufacturer or importer thereof, the purpose of and use for which it is intended, and such photographs, diagrams, or drawings as may be necessary to enable the Director to make his determination. The Director may require the submission to him, of a sample of such device for examination and evaluation. If the submission of such device is impracticable, the person requesting the ruling shall so advise the Director and designate the place where the device will be available for examination and evaluation.

§ 479.25 Collector's items.
The Director shall determine in accordance with 26 U.S.C. 5845(a), whether a firearm or device, which although originally designed as a weapon, is by reason of the date of its manufacture, value, design, and other characteristics primarily a collector's item and is not likely to be used as a weapon. A person who desires to obtain a determination under that provision of law shall follow the procedures prescribed in § 479.24 relating to destructive device determinations, and shall include information as to date of manufacture, value, design and other characteristics which would sustain a finding that the firearm or device is primarily a collector's item and is not likely to be used as a weapon.

§ 479.26 Alternate methods or procedures; emergency variations from requirements.
a.Alternate methods or procedures. Any person subject to the provisions of this part, on specific approval by the Director as provided in this paragraph, may use an alternate method or procedure in lieu of a method or procedure specifically prescribed in this part. The Director may approve an alternate method or procedure, subject to stated conditions, when it is found that:

1.Good cause is shown for the use of the alternate method or procedure;

2.The alternate method or procedure is within the purpose of, and consistent with the effect intended by, the specifically prescribed method or procedure and that the alternate method or procedure is substantially equivalent to that specifically prescribed method or procedure; and

3.The alternate method or procedure will not be contrary to any provision of law and will not result in an increase in cost to the Government or hinder the effective administration of this part. Where such person desires to employ an alternate method or procedure, a written application shall be submitted to the appropriate Director, Industry Operations, for transmittal to the Director. The application shall specifically describe the proposed alternate method or procedure and shall set forth the reasons for it. Alternate methods or procedures may not be employed until the application is approved by the Director. Such person shall, during the period of authorization of an alternate method or procedure, comply with the terms of the approved application. Authorization of any alternate method or procedure may be withdrawn whenever, in the judgment of the Director, the effective administration of this part is hindered by the continuation of the authorization.

b.Emergency variations from requirements. The Director may approve a method of operation other than as specified in this part, where it is found that an emergency exists and the proposed variation from the specified requirements are necessary and the proposed variations (1) will not hinder the effective administration of this part, and (2) will not be contrary to any provisions of law. Variations from requirements granted under this paragraph are conditioned on compliance with the procedures, conditions, and limitations set forth in the approval of the application. Failure to comply in good faith with the procedures, conditions, and limitations shall automatically terminate the authority for the variations, and the person granted the variance shall fully comply with the prescribed requirements of regulations from which the variations were authorized. Authority for any variation may be withdrawn whenever, in the judgment of the Director, the effective administration of this part is hindered by the continuation of the variation. Where a person desires to employ an emergency variation, a written application shall be submitted to the appropriate Director, Industry Operations for transmittal to the Director. The application shall describe the proposed variation and set forth the reasons for it. Variations may not be employed until the application is approved.

c.Retention of approved variations. The person granted the variance shall retain and make available for examination by ATF officers any application approved by the Director under this section.

§ 479.31 Liability for tax.
a.General. Every person who engages in the business of importing, manufacturing, or dealing in (including pawnbrokers) firearms in the United States shall pay a special (occupational) tax at a rate specified by § 479.32. The tax shall be paid on or before the date of commencing the taxable business, and thereafter every year on or before July 1. Special (occupational) tax shall not be prorated. The tax shall be computed for the entire tax year (July 1 through June 30), regardless of the portion of the year during which the taxpayer engages in business. Persons commencing business at any time after July 1 in any year are liable for the special (occupational) tax for the entire tax year.

b.Each place of business taxable. An importer, manufacturer, or dealer in firearms incurs special tax liability at each place of business where an occupation subject to special tax is conducted. A place of business means the entire office, plant or area of the business in any one location under the same proprietorship. Passageways, streets, highways, rail crossings, waterways, or partitions dividing the premises are not sufficient separation to require additional special tax, if the divisions of the premises are otherwise contiguous. See also §§ 479.38-479.39.

§ 479.32 Special (occupational) tax rates.
Except as provided in § 479.32a, the special (occupational) tax rates effective January 1, 1988, are as follows:


Per year or fraction thereof
Class 1—Importer of firearms (including an importer only of weapons classified as “any other weapon”)	$1,000
Class 2—Manufacturer of firearms (including a manufacturer only of weapons classified as “any other weapon”)	1,000
Class 3—Dealer in firearms (including a dealer only of weapons classified as “any other weapon”)	500
§ 479.32a Reduced rate of tax for small importers and manufacturers.
a.General. Effective January 1, 1988, 26 U.S.C. 5801(b) provides for a reduced rate of special tax with respect to any importer or manufacturer whose gross receipts (for the most recent taxable year ending before the first day of the taxable period to which the special tax imposed by § 479.32 relates) are less than $500,000. The rate of tax for such an importer or manufacturer is $500 per year or fraction thereof. The “taxable year” to be used for determining gross receipts is the taxpayer's income tax year. All gross receipts of the taxpayer shall be included, not just the gross receipts of the business subject to special tax. Proprietors of new businesses that have not yet begun a taxable year, as well as proprietors of existing businesses that have not yet ended a taxable year, who commence a new activity subject to special tax, quality for the reduced special (occupational) tax rate, unless the business is a member of a “controlled group”; in that case, the rules of paragraph (b) of this section shall apply.

b.Controlled group. All persons treated as one taxpayer under 26 U.S.C. 5061(e)(3) shall be treated as one taxpayer for the purpose of determining gross receipts under paragraph (a) of this section. “Controlled group” means a controlled group of corporations, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563 and implementing regulations in 26 CFR 1.1563-1 through 1.1563-4, except that the words “at least 80 percent” shall be replaced by the words “more than 50 percent” in each place they appear in subsection (a) of 26 U.S.C. 1563, as well as in the implementing regulations. Also, the rules for a “controlled group of corporations” apply in a similar fashion to groups which include partnerships and/or sole proprietorships. If one entity maintains more than 50% control over a group consisting of corporations and one, or more, partnerships and/or sole proprietorships, all of the members of the controlled group are one taxpayer for the purpose of this section.

c.Short taxable year. Gross receipts for any taxable year of less than 12 months shall be annualized by multiplying the gross receipts for the short period by 12 and dividing the result by the number of months in the short period, as required by 26 U.S.C. 448(c)(3).

d.Returns and allowances. Gross receipts for any taxable year shall be reduced by returns and allowances made during that year under 26 U.S.C. 448(c)(3).

§ 479.33 Special exemption.
a.Any person required to pay special (occupational) tax under this part shall be relieved from payment of that tax if he establishes to the satisfaction of the Director that his business is conducted exclusively with, or on behalf of, the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof. The Director may relieve any person manufacturing firearms for or on behalf of the United States from compliance with any provision of this part in the conduct of the business with respect to such firearms.

b.The exemption in this section may be obtained by filing with the Director an application, in letter form, setting out the manner in which the applicant conducts his business, the type of firearm to be manufactured, and proof satisfactory to the Director of the existence of the contract with the United States, department, independent establishment, or agency thereof, under which the applicant intends to operate.

§ 479.34 Special tax registration and return.
a.General. Special tax shall be paid by return. The prescribed return is ATF Form 5630.7, Special Tax Registration and Return. Special tax returns, with payment of tax, shall be filed with ATF in accordance with instructions on the form. Properly completing, signing, and timely filing of a return (Form 5630.7) constitutes compliance with 26 U.S.C. 5802.

b.Preparation of ATF Form 5630.7. All of the information called for on Form 5630.7 shall be provided, including:

1.The true name of the taxpayer.

2.The trade name(s) (if any) of the business(es) subject to special tax.

3.The employer identification number (see § 479.35).

4.The exact location of the place of business, by name and number of building or street, or if these do not exist, by some description in addition to the post office address. In the case of one return for two or more locations, the address to be shown shall be the taxpayer's principal place of business (or principal office, in the case of a corporate taxpayer).

5.The class(es) of special tax to which the taxpayer is subject.

6.Ownership and control information: That is, the name, position, and residence address of every owner of the business and of every person having power to control its management and policies with respect to the activity subject to special tax. “Owner of the business” shall include every partner, if the taxpayer is a partnership, and every person owning 10% or more of its stock, if the taxpayer is a corporation. However, the ownership and control information required by this paragraph need not be stated if the same information has been previously provided to ATF in connection with a license application under Part 478 of this chapter, and if the information previously provided is still current.

c.Multiple locations and/or classes of tax. A taxpayer subject to special tax for the same period at more than one location or for more than one class of tax shall—

1.File one special tax return, ATF Form 5630.7, with payment of tax, to cover all such locations and classes of tax; and

2.Prepare, in duplicate, a list identified with the taxpayer's name, address (as shown on ATF Form 5630.7), employer identification number, and period covered by the return. The list shall show, by States, the name, address, and tax class of each location for which special tax is being paid. The original of the list shall be filed with ATF in accordance with instructions on the return, and the copy shall be retained at the taxpayer's principal place of business (or principal office, in the case of a corporate taxpayer) for not less than 3 years.

d.Signing of ATF Forms 5630.7 —

1.ORDINARY RETURNS. The return of an individual proprietor shall be signed by the individual. The return of a partnership shall be signed by a general partner. The return of a corporation shall be signed by any officer. In each case, the person signing the return shall designate his or her capacity as “individual owner,” “member of firm,” or, in the case of a corporation, the title of the officer.

2.FIDUCIARIES. Receivers, trustees, assignees, executors, administrators, and other legal representatives who continue the business of a bankrupt, insolvent, deceased person, etc., shall indicate the fiduciary capacity in which they act.

3.AGENT OR ATTORNEY IN FACT. If a return is signed by an agent or attorney in fact, the signature shall be preceded by the name of the principal and followed by the title of the agent or attorney in fact. A return signed by a person as agent will not be accepted unless there is filed, with the ATF office with which the return is required to be filed, a power of attorney authorizing the agent to perform the act.

4.PERJURY STATEMENT. ATF Forms 5630.7 shall contain or be verified by a written declaration that the return has been executed under the penalties of perjury.

e.Identification of taxpayer. If the taxpayer is an individual, with the initial return such person shall securely attach to Form 5630.7 a photograph of the individual 2 × 2 inches in size, clearly showing a full front view of the features of the individual with head bare, with the distance from the top of the head to the point of the chin approximately 1 1/4 inches, and which shall have been taken within 6 months prior to the date of completion of the return. The individual shall also attach to the return a properly completed FBI Form FD-258 (Fingerprint Card). The fingerprints must be clear for accurate classification and should be taken by someone properly equipped to take them: Provided, That the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to individuals who have filed with ATF a properly executed Application for License under 18 U.S.C. Chapter 44, Firearms, ATF Form 7 (5310.12), as specified in § 478.44(a).

§ 479.35 Employer identification number.
a.Requirement. The employer identification number (defined in 26 CFR 301.7701-12) of the taxpayer who has been assigned such a number shall be shown on each special tax return, including amended returns, filed under this subpart. Failure of the taxpayer to include the employer identification number may result in the imposition of the penalty specified in § 70.113 of this chapter.

b.Application for employer identification number. Each taxpayer who files a special tax return, who has not already been assigned an employer identification number, shall file IRS Form SS-4 to apply for one. The taxpayer shall apply for and be assigned only one employer identification number, regardless of the number of places of business for which the taxpayer is required to file a special tax return. The employer identification number shall be applied for no later than 7 days after the filing of the taxpayer's first special tax return. IRS Form SS-4 may be obtained from the director of an IRS service center or from any IRS district director.

c.Preparation and filing of IRS Form SS-4. The taxpayer shall prepare and file IRS Form SS-4, together with any supplementary statement, in accordance with the instructions on the form or issued in respect to it.

§ 479.36 The special tax stamp, receipt for special (occupational) taxes.
Upon filing a properly completed and executed return (Form 5630.7) accompanied by remittance of the full amount due, the taxpayer will be issued a special tax stamp as evidence of payment of the special (occupational) tax.

§ 479.37 Certificates in lieu of stamps lost or destroyed.
When a special tax stamp has been lost or destroyed, such fact should be reported immediately to the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch who issued the stamp. A certificate in lieu of the lost or destroyed stamp will be issued to the taxpayer upon the submission of an affidavit showing to the satisfaction of the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch that the stamp was lost or destroyed.

§ 479.38 Engaging in business at more than one location.
A person shall pay the special (occupational) tax for each location where he engages in any business taxable under 26 U.S.C. 5801. However, a person paying a special (occupational) tax covering his principal place of business may utilize other locations solely for storage of firearms without incurring special (occupational) tax liability at such locations. A manufacturer, upon the single payment of the appropriate special (occupational) tax, may sell firearms, if such firearms are of his own manufacture, at the place of manufacture and at his principal office or place of business if no such firearms, except samples, are kept at such office or place of business. When a person changes the location of a business for which he has paid the special (occupational) tax, he will be liable for another such tax unless the change is properly registered with the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch for the region in which the special tax stamp was issued, as provided in § 479.46.

§ 479.39 Engaging in more than one business at the same location.
If more than one business taxable under 26 U.S.C. 5801, is carried on at the same location during a taxable year, the special (occupational) tax imposed on each such business must be paid. This section does not require a qualified manufacturer or importer to qualify as a dealer if such manufacturer or importer also engages in business on his qualified premises as a dealer. However, a qualified manufacturer who engages in business as an importer must also qualify as an importer. Further, a qualified dealer is not entitled to engage in business as a manufacturer or importer.

§ 479.40 Partnership liability.
Any number of persons doing business in partnership at any one location shall be required to pay but one special (occupational) tax.

§ 479.41 Single sale.
A single sale, unattended by circumstances showing the one making the sale to be engaged in business, does not create special (occupational) tax liability.

§ 479.42 Changes through death of owner.
Whenever any person who has paid special (occupational) tax dies, the surviving spouse or child, or executors or administrators, or other legal representatives, may carry on this business for the remainder of the term for which tax has been paid and at the place (or places) for which the tax was paid, without any additional payment, subject to the following conditions. If the surviving spouse or child, or executor or administrator, or other legal representative of the deceased taxpayer continues the business, such person shall, within 30 days after the date on which the successor begins to carry on the business, file a new return, Form 5630.7, with ATF in accordance with the instructions on the form. The return thus executed shall show the name of the original taxpayer, together with the basis of the succession. (As to liability in case of failure to register, see § 479.49.)

§ 479.43 Changes through bankruptcy of owner.
A receiver or referee in bankruptcy may continue the business under the stamp issued to the taxpayer at the place and for the period for which the tax was paid. An assignee for the benefit of creditors may continue business under his assignor's special tax stamp without incurring additional special (occupational) tax liability. In such cases, the change shall be registered with ATF in a manner similar to that required by § 479.42.

§ 479.44 Change in partnership or unincorporated association.
When one or more members withdraw from a partnership or an unincorporated association, the remaining member, or members, may, without incurring additional special (occupational) tax liability, carry on the same business at the same location for the balance of the taxable period for which special (occupational) tax was paid, provided any such change shall be registered in the same manner as required by § 479.42. Where new member(s) are taken into a partnership or an unincorporated association, the new firm so constituted may not carry on business under the special tax stamp of the old firm. The new firm must file a return, pay the special (occupational) tax and register in the same manner as a person who first engages in business is required to do under § 479.34 even though the name of the new firm may be the same as that of the old. Where the members of a partnership or an unincorporated association, which has paid special (occupational) tax, form a corporation to continue the business, a new special tax stamp must be taken out in the name of the corporation.

§ 479.45 Changes in corporation.
Additional special (occupational) tax is not required by reason of a mere change of name or increase in the capital stock of a corporation if the laws of the State of incorporation provide for such change or increase without the formation of a new corporation. A stockholder in a corporation who after its dissolution continues the business, incurs new special (occupational) tax liability.

§ 479.46 Notice by taxpayer.
Whenever during the taxable year a taxpayer intends to remove his business to a location other than specified in his last special (occupational) tax return (see § 479.34), he shall file with ATF (a) a return, Form 5630.7, bearing the notation “Removal Registry,” and showing the new address intended to be used, (b) his current special tax stamp, and (c) a letter application requesting the amendment of his registration. The Chief, National Firearms Act Branch, upon approval of the application, shall return the special tax stamp, amended to show the new business location. Firearms operations shall not be commenced at the new business location by the taxpayer prior to the required approval of his application to so change his business location.

§ 479.47 Notice by taxpayer.
Whenever during the taxable year a taxpayer intends to change the name of his business, he shall file with ATF (a) a return, Form 5630.7, bearing the notation “Amended,” and showing the trade name intended to be used, (b) his current special tax stamp, and (c) a letter application requesting the amendment of his registration. The Chief, National Firearms Act Branch, upon approval of the application, shall return the special tax stamp, amended to show the new trade name. Firearms operations shall not be commenced under the new trade name by the taxpayer prior to the required approval of his application to so change the trade name.

§ 479.48 Failure to pay special (occupational) tax.
Any person who engages in a business taxable under 26 U.S.C. 5801, without timely payment of the tax imposed with respect to such business (see § 479.34) shall be liable for such tax, plus the interest and penalties thereon (see 26 U.S.C. 6601 and 6651). In addition, such person may be liable for criminal penalties under 26 U.S.C. 5871.

§ 479.49 Failure to register change or removal.
Any person succeeding to and carrying on a business for which special (occupational) tax has been paid without registering such change within 30 days thereafter, and any taxpayer removing his business with respect to which special (occupational) tax has been paid to a place other than that for which tax was paid without obtaining approval therefor (see § 479.46), will incur liability to an additional payment of the tax, addition to tax and interest, as provided in sections 5801, 6651, and 6601, respectively, I.R.C., for failure to make return (see § 479.50) or pay tax, as well as criminal penalties for carrying on business without payment of special (occupational) tax (see section 5871 I.R.C.).

§ 479.50 Delinquency.
Any person liable for special (occupational) tax under section 5801, I.R.C., who fails to file a return (Form 5630.7), as prescribed, will be liable for a delinquency penalty computed on the amount of tax due unless a return (Form 5630.7) is later filed and failure to file the return timely is shown to the satisfaction of the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch, to be due to reasonable cause. The delinquency penalty to be added to the tax is 5 percent if the failure is for not more than 1 month, with an additional 5 percent for each additional month or fraction thereof during which failure continues, not to exceed 25 percent in the aggregate (section 6651, I.R.C.). However, no delinquency penalty is assessed where the 50 percent addition to tax is assessed for fraud (see § 479.51).

§ 479.51 Fraudulent return.
If any part of any underpayment of tax required to be shown on a return is due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50 percent of the underpayment, but no delinquency penalty shall be assessed with respect to the same underpayment (section 6653, I.R.C.).

§ 479.52 State regulations.
Special tax stamps are merely receipts for the tax. Payment of tax under Federal law confers no privilege to act contrary to State law. One to whom a special tax stamp has been issued may still be punishable under a State law prohibiting or controlling the manufacture, possession or transfer of firearms. On the other hand, compliance with State law confers no immunity under Federal law. Persons who engage in the business of importing, manufacturing or dealing in firearms, in violation of the law of a State, are nevertheless required to pay special (occupational) tax as imposed under the internal revenue laws of the United States. For provisions relating to restrictive use of information furnished to comply with the provisions of this part see § 479.23.

§ 479.61 Rate of tax.
Except as provided in this subpart, there shall be levied, collected, and paid upon the making of a firearm a tax at the rate of $200 for each firearm made. This tax shall be paid by the person making the firearm. Payment of the tax on the making of a firearm shall be represented by a $200 adhesive stamp bearing the words “National Firearms Act.” The stamps are maintained by the Director.

§ 479.62 Application to make.
a.General. No person shall make a firearm unless the person has filed with the Director a completed application on ATF Form 1 (5320.1), Application to Make and Register a Firearm, in duplicate, executed under the penalties of perjury, to make and register the firearm and has received the approval of the Director to make the firearm, which approval shall effectuate registration of the firearm to the applicant. If the applicant is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a partnership, company (including a Limited Liability Company (LLC)), association, trust, or corporation, all information on the Form 1 application shall be furnished for each responsible person of the applicant

b.Preparation of ATF Form 1. All of the information called for on Form 1 shall be provided, including:

1.The type of application, i.e., tax paid or tax exempt. If the making of the firearm is taxable, the applicant shall submit a remittance in the amount of $200 with the application in accordance with the instructions on the form;

2.The identity of the applicant. If an individual, the applicant shall provide the applicant's name, address, and date of birth, and also comply with the identification requirements prescribed in § 479.63(a). If other than an individual, the applicant shall provide its name, address, and employer identification number, if any, as well as the name and address of each responsible person. Each responsible person of the applicant also shall comply with the identification requirements prescribed in § 479.63(b);

3.A description of the firearm to be made by type; caliber, gauge, or size; model; length of barrel; serial number; other marks of identification; and the name and address of the original manufacturer (if the applicant is not the original manufacturer);

4.The applicant's Federal firearms license number (if any);

5.The applicant's special (occupational) tax stamp (if applicable); and

6.If the applicant (including, if other than an individual, any responsible person) is an alien admitted under a nonimmigrant visa, applicable documentation demonstrating that the nonimmigrant alien falls within an exception to 18 U.S.C. 922(g)(5)(B) under 18 U.S.C. 922(y)(2), or has obtained a waiver of that provision under 18 U.S.C. 922(y)(3).

c.Notification of chief law enforcement officer. Prior to the submission of the application to the Director, all applicants and responsible persons shall forward a completed copy of Form 1 or a completed copy of Form 5320.23, respectively, to the chief law enforcement officer of the locality in which the applicant or responsible person is located. The chief law enforcement officer is the local chief of police, county sheriff, head of the State police, or State or local district attorney or prosecutor. If the applicant is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a partnership, company, association, or corporation, for purposes of this section, it is considered located at its principal office or principal place of business; if a trust, for purposes of this section, it is considered located at the primary location at which the firearm will be maintained.

d.Approval of Form 1. If the application is approved, the Director will affix a National Firearms Act stamp to the original application in the space provided therefor and properly cancel the stamp ( see § 479.67). The approved application will then be returned to the applicant.

§ 479.63 Identification of applicant.
a.If the applicant is an individual, the applicant shall:

1.Securely attach to each copy of the Form 1, in the space provided on the form, a 2 x 2-inch photograph of the applicant, clearly showing a full front view of the features of the applicant with head bare, with the distance from the top of the head to the point of the chin approximately 1 1/4 inches, and which shall have been taken within 1 year prior to the date of the application; and

2.Attach to the application two properly completed FBI Forms FD-258 (Fingerprint Card). The fingerprints must be clear for accurate classification and should be taken by someone properly equipped to take them.

b.If the applicant is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a partnership, company (including a Limited Liability Company (LLC)), association, trust, or corporation, the applicant shall:

1.Be identified on the Form 1 by the name and exact location of the place of business, including the name and number of the building and street, and the name of the county in which the business is located or, in the case of a trust, the primary location at which the firearm will be maintained. In the case of two or more locations, the address shown shall be the principal place of business (or principal office, in the case of a corporation) or, in the case of a trust, the primary location at which the firearm will be maintained;

2.Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, attach to the application—

i.Documentation evidencing the existence and validity of the entity, which includes complete and unredacted copies of partnership agreements, articles of incorporation, corporate registration, and declarations of trust, with any trust schedules, attachments, exhibits, and enclosures;

ii.A completed ATF Form 5320.23 for each responsible person. Form 5320.23 requires certain identifying information, including each responsible person's full name, position, home address, date of birth, and country of citizenship if other than the United States;

iii.In the space provided on Form 5320.23, a 2 x 2-inch photograph of each responsible person, clearly showing a full front view of the features of the responsible person with head bare, with the distance from the top of the head to the point of the chin approximately 1 1/4 inches, and which shall have been taken within 1 year prior to the date of the application;

iv.Two properly completed FBI Forms FD-258 (Fingerprint Card) for each responsible person. The fingerprints must be clear for accurate classification and should be taken by someone properly equipped to take them.

c.If the applicant entity has had an application approved as a maker or transferee within the preceding 24 months, and there has been no change to the documentation previously provided, the entity may provide a certification that the information has not been changed since the prior approval and shall identify the application for which the documentation had been submitted by form number, serial number, and date approved.

§ 479.64 Procedure for approval of application.
The application to make a firearm, Form 1 (Firearms), must be forwarded directly, in duplicate, by the maker of the firearm to the Director in accordance with the instructions on the form. The Director will consider the application for approval or disapproval. If the application is approved, the Director will return the original thereof to the maker of the firearm and retain the duplicate. Upon receipt of the approved application, the maker is authorized to make the firearm described therein. The maker of the firearm shall not, under any circumstances, make the firearm until the application, satisfactorily executed, has been forwarded to the Director and has been approved and returned by the Director with the National Firearms Act stamp affixed. If the application is disapproved, the original Form 1 (Firearms) and the remittance submitted by the applicant for the purchase of the stamp will be returned to the applicant with the reason for disapproval stated on the form.

§ 479.65 Denial of application.
An application to make a firearm shall not be approved by the Director if the making or possession of the firearm would place the person making the firearm in violation of law.

§ 479.66 Subsequent transfer of firearms.
Where a firearm which has been made in compliance with 26 U.S.C. 5821, and the regulations contained in this part, is to be transferred subsequently, the transfer provisions of the firearms laws and regulations must be complied with. (See subpart F of this part).

§ 479.67 Cancellation of stamp.
The person affixing to a Form 1 (Firearms) a “National Firearms Act” stamp shall cancel it by writing or stamping thereon, in ink, his initials, and the day, month and year, in such manner as to render it unfit for reuse. The cancellation shall not so deface the stamp as to prevent its denomination and genuineness from being readily determined.

§ 479.68 Qualified manufacturer.
A manufacturer qualified under this part to engage in such business may make firearms without payment of the making tax. However, such manufacturer shall report and register each firearm made in the manner prescribed by this part.

§ 479.69 Making a firearm for the United States.
A firearm may be made by, or on behalf of, the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof without payment of the making tax. However, if a firearm is to be made on behalf of the United States, the maker must file an application, in duplicate, on Form 1 (Firearms) and obtain the approval of the Director in the manner prescribed in § 479.62.

§ 479.70 Certain government entities.
A firearm may be made without payment of the making tax by, or on behalf of, any State, or possession of the United States, any political subdivision thereof, or any official police organization of such a government entity engaged in criminal investigations. Any person making a firearm under this exemption shall first file an application, in duplicate, on Form 1 (Firearms) and obtain the approval of the Director as prescribed in § 479.62.

§ 479.71 Proof of registration.
The approval by the Director of an application, Form 1 (Firearms), to make a firearm under this subpart shall effectuate registration of the firearm described in the Form 1 (Firearms) to the person making the firearm. The original Form 1 (Firearms) showing approval by the Director shall be retained by the maker to establish proof of his registration of the firearm described therein, and shall be made available to any ATF officer on request.

§ 479.81 Scope of tax.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, each transfer of a firearm in the United States is subject to a tax to be represented by an adhesive stamp of the proper denomination bearing the words “National Firearms Act” to be affixed to the Form 4 (Firearms), Application for Transfer and Registration of Firearm, as provided in this subpart.

§ 479.82 Rate of tax.
The transfer tax imposed with respect to firearms transferred within the United States is at the rate of $200 for each firearm transferred, except that the transfer tax on any firearm classified as “any other weapon” shall be at the rate of $5 for each such firearm transferred. The tax imposed on the transfer of the firearm shall be paid by the transferor.

§ 479.83 Transfer tax in addition to import duty.
The transfer tax imposed by section 5811, I.R.C., is in addition to any import duty.

§ 479.84 Application to transfer.
a.General. Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, no firearm may be transferred in the United States unless an application, Form 4 (5320.4), Application for Tax Paid Transfer and Registration of Firearm, in duplicate, executed under the penalties of perjury, to transfer the firearm and register it to the transferee has been filed with and approved by the Director. The application shall be filed by the transferor. If the transferee is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a partnership, company (including a Limited Liability Company (LLC)), association, trust, or corporation, all information on the Form 4 application shall be furnished for each responsible person of the transferee.

b.Preparation of ATF Form 4. All of the information called for on Form 4 shall be provided, including:

1.The type of firearm being transferred. If the firearm is other than one classified as “any other weapon,” the applicant shall submit a remittance in the amount of $200 with the application in accordance with the instructions on the form. If the firearm is classified as “any other weapon,” the applicant shall submit a remittance in the amount of $5;

2.The identity of the transferor by name and address and, if the transferor is other than a natural person, the title or legal status of the person executing the application in relation to the transferor;

3.The transferor's Federal firearms license number (if any);

4.The transferor's special (occupational) tax stamp (if any);

5.The identity of the transferee by name and address and, if the transferee is a person not qualified as a manufacturer, importer, or dealer under this part, the transferee shall be further identified in the manner prescribed in § 479.85;

6.The transferee's Federal firearms license number (if any);

7.The transferee's special (occupational) tax stamp (if applicable); and

8.A description of the firearm to be transferred by name and address of the manufacturer or importer (if known); caliber, gauge, or size; model; serial number; in the case of a short-barreled shotgun or a short-barreled rifle, the length of the barrel; in the case of a weapon made from a rifle or shotgun, the overall length of the weapon and the length of the barrel; and any other identifying marks on the firearm. In the event the firearm does not bear a serial number, the applicant shall obtain a serial number from ATF and shall stamp (impress) or otherwise conspicuously place such serial number on the firearm in a manner not susceptible of being readily obliterated, altered, or removed.

9.If the transferee (including, if other than an individual, any responsible person) is an alien admitted under a nonimmigrant visa, applicable documentation demonstrating that the nonimmigrant alien falls within an exception to 18 U.S.C. 922(g)(5)(B) under 18 U.S.C. 922(y)(2), or has obtained a waiver of that provision under 18 U.S.C. 922(y)(3).

c.Notification of chief law enforcement officer. Prior to the submission of the application to the Director, all transferees and responsible persons shall forward a completed copy of Form 4 or a completed copy of Form 5320.23, respectively, to the chief law enforcement officer of the locality in which the transferee or responsible person is located. The chief law enforcement officer is the local chief of police, county sheriff, head of the State police, State or local district attorney or prosecutor. If the transferee is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a partnership, company, association, or corporation, for purposes of this section, it is considered located at its principal office or principal place of business; if the transferee is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a trust, for purposes of this section, it is considered located at the primary location at which the firearm will be maintained.

d.Approval of Form 4. If the application is approved, the Director will affix a National Firearms Act stamp to the original application in the space provided therefor and properly cancel the stamp ( see § 479.87). The approved application will then be returned to the transferor.

§ 479.85 Identification of transferee.
a.If the transferee is an individual, such person shall:

1.Securely attach to each copy of the Form 4, in the space provided on the form, a 2 x 2-inch photograph of the applicant, clearly showing a full front view of the features of the applicant with head bare, with the distance from the top of the head to the point of the chin approximately 1 1/4 inches, and which shall have been taken within 1 year prior to the date of the application; and

2.Attach to the application two properly completed FBI Forms FD-258 (Fingerprint Card). The fingerprints must be clear for accurate classification and should be taken by someone properly equipped to take them.

b.If the transferee is not a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer qualified under this part and is a partnership, company, association, trust, or corporation, such person shall:

1.Be identified on the Form 4 by the name and exact location of the place of business, including the name and number of the building and street, and the name of the county in which the business is located or, in the case of a trust, the primary location at which the firearm will be maintained. In the case of two or more locations, the address shown shall be the principal place of business (or principal office, in the case of a corporation) or, in the case of a trust, the primary location at which the firearm will be maintained;

2.Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, attach to the application—

i.Documentation evidencing the existence and validity of the entity, which includes complete and unredacted copies of partnership agreements, articles of incorporation, corporate registration, and declarations of trust, with any trust schedules, attachments, exhibits, and enclosures;

ii.A completed ATF Form 5320.23 for each responsible person. Form 5320.23 requires certain identifying information, including the responsible person's full name, position, home address, date of birth, and country of citizenship if other than the United States;

iii.In the space provided on Form 5320.23, a 2 x 2-inch photograph of each responsible person, clearly showing a full front view of the features of the responsible person with head bare, with the distance from the top of the head to the point of the chin approximately 1 1/4 inches, and which shall have been taken within 1 year prior to the date of the application; and

iv.Two properly completed FBI Forms FD-258 (Fingerprint Card) for each responsible person. The fingerprints must be clear for accurate classification and should be taken by someone properly equipped to take them.

c.If the applicant entity has had an application approved as a maker or transferee within the preceding 24 months, and there has been no change to the documentation previously provided, the entity may provide a certification that the information has not been changed since the prior approval and shall identify the application for which the documentation had been submitted by form number, serial number, and date approved.

§ 479.86 Action on application.
The Director will consider a completed and properly executed application, Form 4 (Firearms), to transfer a firearm. If the application is approved, the Director will affix the appropriate National Firearms Act stamp, cancel it, and return the original application showing approval to the transferor who may then transfer the firearm to the transferee along with the approved application. The approval of an application, Form 4 (Firearms), by the Director will effectuate registration of the firearm to the transferee. The transferee shall not take possession of a firearm until the application, Form 4 (Firearms), for the transfer filed by the transferor has been approved by the Director and registration of the firearm is effectuated to the transferee. The transferee shall retain the approved application as proof that the firearm described therein is registered to the transferee, and shall make the approved Form 4 (Firearms) available to any ATF officer on request. If the application, Form 4 (Firearms), to transfer a firearm is disapproved by the Director, the original application and the remittance for purchase of the stamp will be returned to the transferor with reasons for the disapproval stated on the application. An application, Form 4 (Firearms), to transfer a firearm shall be denied if the transfer, receipt, or possession of a firearm would place the transferee in violation of law. In addition to any other records checks that may be conducted to determine whether the transfer, receipt, or possession of a firearm would place the transferee in violation of law, the Director shall contact the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.

§ 479.87 Cancellation of stamp.
The method of cancellation of the stamp required by this subpart as prescribed in § 479.67 shall be used.

§ 479.88 Special (occupational) taxpayers.
a.A firearm registered to a person qualified under this part to engage in business as an importer, manufacturer, or dealer may be transferred by that person without payment of the transfer tax to any other person qualified under this part to manufacture, import, or deal in firearms.

b.The exemption provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall be obtained by the transferor of the firearm filing with the Director an application, Form 3 (Firearms), Application for Tax-exempt Transfer of Firearm and Registration to Special (Occupational) Taxpayer, in duplicate, executed under the penalties of perjury. The application, Form 3 (Firearms), shall (1) show the name and address of the transferor and of the transferee, (2) identify the Federal firearms license and special (occupational) tax stamp of the transferor and of the transferee, (3) show the name and address of the manufacturer and the importer of the firearm, if known, (4) show the type, model, overall length (if applicable), length of barrel, caliber, gauge or size, serial number, and other marks of identification of the firearm, and (5) contain a statement by the transferor that he is entitled to the exemption because the transferee is a person qualified under this part to manufacture, import, or deal in firearms. If the Director approves an application, Form 3 (Firearms), he shall return the original Form 3 (Firearms) to the transferor with the approval noted thereon. Approval of an application, Form 3 (Firearms), by the Director shall remove registration of the firearm reported thereon from the transferor and shall effectuate the registration of that firearm to the transferee. Upon receipt of the approved Form 3 (Firearms), the transferor shall deliver same with the firearm to the transferee. The transferor shall not transfer the firearm to the transferee until his application, Form 3 (Firearms), has been approved by the Director and the original thereof has been returned to the transferor. If the Director disapproves the application, Form 3 (Firearms), he shall return the original Form 3 (Firearms) to the transferor with the reasons for the disapproval stated thereon.

c.The transferor shall be responsible for establishing the exempt status of the transferee before making a transfer under the provisions of this section. Therefore, before engaging in transfer negotiations with the transferee, the transferor should satisfy himself as to the claimed exempt status of the transferee and the bona fides of the transaction. If not fully satisfied, the transferor should communicate with the Director, report all circumstances regarding the proposed transfer, and await the Director's advice before making application for the transfer. An unapproved transfer or a transfer to an unauthorized person may subject the transferor to civil and criminal liabilities. (See 26 U.S.C. 5852, 5861, and 5871.)

§ 479.89 Transfers to the United States.
A firearm may be transferred to the United States or any department, independent establishment or agency thereof without payment of the transfer tax. However, the procedures for the transfer of a firearm as provided in § 479.90 shall be followed in a tax-exempt transfer of a firearm under this section, unless the transferor is relieved of such requirement under other provisions of this part.

§ 479.90 Certain government entities.
a.A firearm may be transferred without payment of the transfer tax to or from any State, possession of the United States, any political subdivision thereof, or any official police organization of such a governmental entity engaged in criminal investigations.

b.The exemption provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall be obtained by the transferor of the firearm filing with the Director an application, Form 5 (Firearms), Application for Tax-exempt Transfer and Registration of Firearm, in duplicate, executed under the penalties of perjury. The application shall (1) show the name and address of the transferor and of the transferee, (2) identify the Federal firearms license and special (occupational) tax stamp, if any, of the transferor and of the transferee, (3) show the name and address of the manufacturer and the importer of the firearm, if known, (4) show the type, model, overall length (if applicable), length of barrel, caliber, gauge or size, serial number, and other marks of identification of the firearm, and (5) contain a statement by the transferor that the transferor is entitled to the exemption because either the transferor or the transferee is a governmental entity coming within the purview of paragraph (a) of this section. In the case of a transfer of a firearm by a governmental entity to a transferee who is a person not qualified as a manufacturer, importer, or dealer under this part, the transferee shall be further identified in the manner prescribed in § 479.85. If the Director approves an application, Form 5 (Firearms), the original Form 5 (Firearms) shall be returned to the transferor with the approval noted thereon. Approval of an application, Form 5 (Firearms), by the Director shall effectuate the registration of that firearm to the transferee. Upon receipt of the approved Form 5 (Firearms), the transferor shall deliver same with the firearm to the transferee. The transferor shall not transfer the firearm to the transferee until the application, Form 5 (Firearms), has been approved by the Director and the original thereof has been returned to the transferor. If the Director disapproves the application, Form 5 (Firearms), the original Form 5 (Firearms) shall be returned to the transferor with the reasons for the disapproval stated thereon. An application by a governmental entity to transfer a firearm shall be denied if the transfer, receipt, or possession of a firearm would place the transferee in violation of law.

c.The transferor shall be responsible for establishing the exempt status of the transferee before making a transfer under the provisions of this section. Therefore, before engaging in transfer negotiations with the transferee, the transferor should satisfy himself of the claimed exempt status of the transferee and the bona fides of the transaction. If not fully satisfied, the transferor should communicate with the Director, report all circumstances regarding the proposed transfer, and await the Director's advice before making application for transfer. An unapproved transfer or a transfer to an unauthorized person may subject the transferor to civil and criminal liabilities. (See 26 U.S.C. 5852, 5861, and 5871.)

§ 479.90a Estates.
a.The executor, administrator, personal representative, or other person authorized under State law to dispose of property in an estate (collectively “executor”) may possess a firearm registered to a decedent during the term of probate without such possession being treated as a “transfer” as defined in § 479.11. No later than the close of probate, the executor must submit an application to transfer the firearm to beneficiaries or other transferees in accordance with this section. If the transfer is to a beneficiary, the executor shall file an ATF Form 5 (5320.5), Application for Tax Exempt Transfer and Registration of Firearm, to register a firearm to any beneficiary of an estate in accordance with § 479.90. The executor will identify the estate as the transferor, and will sign the form on behalf of the decedent, showing the executor's title ( e.g., executor, administrator, personal representative, etc.) and the date of filing. The executor must also provide the documentation prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

b.If there are no beneficiaries of the estate or the beneficiaries do not wish to possess the registered firearm, the executor will dispose of the property outside the estate ( i.e., to a non-beneficiary). The executor shall file an ATF Form 4 (5320.4), Application for Tax Paid Transfer and Registration of Firearm, in accordance with § 479.84. The executor, administrator, personal representative, or other authorized person must also provide documentation prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

c.The executor, administrator, personal representative, or other person authorized under State law to dispose of property in an estate shall submit with the transfer application documentation of the person's appointment as executor, administrator, personal representative, or as an authorized person, a copy of the decedent's death certificate, a copy of the will (if any), any other evidence of the person's authority to dispose of property, and any other document relating to, or affecting the disposition of firearms from the estate.

§ 479.91 Unserviceable firearms.
An unserviceable firearm may be transferred as a curio or ornament without payment of the transfer tax. However, the procedures for the transfer of a firearm as provided in § 479.90 shall be followed in a tax-exempt transfer of a firearm under this section, except a statement shall be entered on the transfer application, Form 5 (Firearms), by the transferor that he is entitled to the exemption because the firearm to be transferred is unservicable and is being transferred as a curio or ornament. An unapproved transfer, the transfer of a firearm under the provisions of this section which is in fact not an unserviceable firearm, or the transfer of an unserviceable firearm as something other than a curio or ornament, may subject the transferor to civil and criminal liabilities. (See 26 U.S.C. 5811, 5852, 5861, and 5871.)

§ 479.92 Transportation of firearms to effect transfer.
Notwithstanding any provision of § 478.28 of this chapter, it shall not be required that authorization be obtained from the Director for the transportation in interstate or foreign commerce of a firearm in order to effect the transfer of a firearm authorized under the provisions of this subpart.

§ 479.93 Transfers of firearms to certain persons.
Where the transfer of a destructive device, machine gun, short-barreled shotgun, or short-barreled rifle is to be made by a person licensed under the provisions of Title I of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1213) to a person not so licensed, the sworn statement required by § 478.98 of this chapter shall be attached to and accompany the transfer application required by this subpart.

§ 479.101 Registration of firearms.
a.The Director shall maintain a central registry of all firearms in the United States which are not in the possession of or under the control of the United States. This registry shall be known as the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record and shall include:

1.Identification of the firearm as required by this part;

2.Date of registration; and

3.Identification and address of person entitled to possession of the firearm as required by this part.

b.Each manufacturer, importer, and maker shall register each firearm he manufactures, imports, or makes in the manner prescribed by this part. Each firearm transferred shall be registered to the transferee by the transferor in the manner prescribed by this part. No firearm may be registered by a person unlawfully in possession of the firearm except during an amnesty period established under section 207 of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1235).

c.A person shown as possessing firearms by the records maintained by the Director pursuant to the National Firearms Act (26 U.S.C. Chapter 53) in force on October 31, 1968, shall be considered to have registered the firearms in his possession which are disclosed by that record as being in his possession on October 31, 1968.

d.The National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record shall include firearms registered to the possessors thereof under the provisions of section 207 of the Gun Control Act of 1968.

e.A person possessing a firearm registered to him shall retain proof of registration which shall be made available to any ATF officer upon request.

f.A firearm not identified as required by this part shall not be registered.

§ 479.102 Identification of firearms.
a.Identification required. Except as otherwise provided in this section, you, as a manufacturer, importer, or maker of a firearm, must legibly identify the firearm as follows:

1.SERIAL NUMBER, NAME, PLACE OF BUSINESS. By engraving, casting, stamping (impressing), or otherwise conspicuously placing or causing to be engraved, cast, stamped (impressed) or otherwise placed on the frame or receiver thereof, an individual serial number, in a manner not susceptible of being readily obliterated, altered, or removed. The serial number must not duplicate any serial number placed by you on any other firearm. The frame or receiver must also be marked with either: Your name (or recognized abbreviation), and city and State (or recognized abbreviation) where you as a manufacturer or importer maintain your place of business, or in the case of a maker, where you made the firearm; or if a manufacturer or importer, your name (or recognized abbreviation) and the serial number that begins with your abbreviated Federal firearms license number, which is the first three and last five digits, as a prefix to a unique identification number, followed by a hyphen, e.g., “12345678-[unique identification number]”; and

2.MODEL, CALIBER OR GAUGE, FOREIGN MANUFACTURER, COUNTRY OF MANUFACTURE. By engraving, casting, stamping (impressing), or otherwise conspicuously placing or causing to be engraved, cast, stamped (impressed) or placed on the frame or receiver, or barrel or pistol slide (if applicable) thereof certain additional information. This information must be placed in a manner not susceptible of being readily obliterated, altered, or removed. The additional information shall include:

i.The model, if such designation has been made;

ii.The caliber or gauge;

iii.When applicable, the name of the foreign manufacturer or maker; and

iv.In the case of an imported firearm, the name of the country in which it was manufactured. For additional requirements relating to imported firearms, see Customs regulations at 19 CFR part 134.

3.MULTI-PIECE FRAME OR RECEIVER. In the case of a multi-piece frame or receiver, the modular subpart that is the outermost housing or structure designed to house, hold, or contain either the primary energized component of a handgun, breech blocking or sealing component of a projectile weapon other than a handgun, or internal sound reduction component of a firearm muffler or firearm silencer, as the case may be, shall be the subpart of a multi-piece frame or receiver identified in accordance with this section. If more than one subpart is similarly designed to house, hold, or contain such primary component ( e.g., left and right halves), each of those subparts must be identified with the same serial number and associated licensee information not duplicated on any other frame or receiver. The identified subpart(s) of a complete (assembled or unassembled) multi-piece frame or receiver shall not be removed and replaced ( see § 478.34 of this subchapter, 18 U.S.C. 922(k), and 26 U.S.C. 5861(g) and (h)), unless—

i.The subpart replacement is not a firearm under 26 U.S.C. 5845;

ii.The subpart replacement is identified by the qualified manufacturer of the original subpart with the same serial number and associated licensee information in the manner prescribed by this section; and

iii.The original subpart is destroyed under the manufacturer's control or direct supervision prior to such placement.

4.FRAME OR RECEIVER, MACHINE GUN CONVERSION PART, OR SILENCER PART DISPOSED OF SEPARATELY. Each part defined as a frame or receiver or modular subpart thereof described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, machinegun, or firearm muffler or firearm silencer that is not a component part of a complete weapon or complete muffler or silencer device at the time it is sold, shipped, or otherwise disposed of by you must be identified as required by this section with an individual serial number not duplicated on any other firearm and all additional identifying information, except that the model designation and caliber or gauge may be omitted if that information is unknown at the time the part is identified.

5.SIZE AND DEPTH OF MARKINGS. The engraving, casting, or stamping (impressing) of the serial number and additional information must be to a minimum depth of .003 inch, and the serial number and any associated license number in a print size no smaller than 1/16 inch. The size of the serial and license number is measured as the distance between the latitudinal ends of the character impression bottoms (bases). The depth of all markings required by this section is measured from the flat surface of the metal and not the peaks or ridges.

6.PERIOD OF TIME TO IDENTIFY FIREARMS. You, as a manufacturer, shall identify a complete weapon or complete muffler or silencer device no later than close of the next business day following the date the entire manufacturing process has ended for the weapon or device, or prior to disposition, whichever is sooner. You must identify each part or modular subpart defined as a machine gun (frame or receiver, or conversion part) or muffler or silencer that is not a component part of a complete weapon or complete muffler or silencer device at the time it is sold, shipped, or otherwise disposed of no later than close of the next business day following the date the entire manufacturing process has ended for the part, or prior to disposition, whichever is sooner. For purposes of this paragraph, firearms awaiting materials, parts, or equipment repair to be completed are presumed, absent reliable evidence to the contrary, to be in the manufacturing process. Importers must identify imported firearms within the period prescribed in § 478.112 of this subchapter.

7.MEANING OF MARKING TERMS. For purposes of this section, the term “identify” means placing marks of identification, the terms “legible” and “legibly” mean that the identification markings (including any unique identification number) use exclusively Roman letters ( e.g., A, a, B, b, C, c) and Arabic numerals ( e.g., 1, 2, 3), or solely Arabic numerals, and may include a hyphen, and the terms “conspicuous” and “conspicuously” mean that the identification markings are capable of being easily seen with the naked eye during normal handling of the firearm and are unobstructed by other markings when the complete weapon or device is assembled.

b.Exceptions—

1.ALTERNATE MEANS OF IDENTIFICATION. The Director may authorize other means of identification to identify firearms upon receipt of a letter application or prescribed form from you showing that such other identification is reasonable and will not hinder the effective administration of this part.

2.DESTRUCTIVE DEVICES. In the case of a destructive device, the Director may authorize other means of identification to identify that weapon upon receipt of a letter application or prescribed form from you. The application shall show that engraving, casting, or stamping (impressing) such a weapon as required by this section would be dangerous or impracticable and that the alternate means of identification proposed will not hinder the effective administration of this part.

3.ADOPTION OF IDENTIFYING MARKINGS. You may adopt existing markings and are not required to mark a serial number or other identifying markings previously placed on a firearm in accordance with this section, as follows:

i.Newly manufactured firearms. Manufacturers may adopt the serial number and other identifying markings previously placed on a firearm by another manufacturer provided the firearm has not been sold, shipped, or otherwise disposed of to a person other than a qualified manufacturer, importer, or dealer, and the serial number adopted is not duplicated on any other firearm.

ii.Remanufactured or imported firearms. Manufacturers and importers may adopt the serial number or other identifying markings previously placed on a firearm that otherwise meets the requirements of this section that has been sold, shipped, or otherwise disposed of to a person other than a licensee provided that, within the period and in the manner herein prescribed, the manufacturer or importer legibly and conspicuously places, or causes to be placed, on the frame or receiver either: Their name (or recognized abbreviation), and city and State (or recognized abbreviation) where they maintain their place of business; or their name (or recognized abbreviation) and abbreviated Federal firearms license number, which is the first three and last five digits, individually ( i.e., not as a prefix to the serial number adopted) after the letters “FFL”, in the following format: “FFL12345678”. The serial number adopted must not duplicate any serial number adopted or placed on any other firearm, except that if an importer receives two or more firearms with the same foreign manufacturer's serial number, the importer may adopt the serial number by adding letters or numbers to that serial number, and may include a hyphen.

iii.Manufacturers performing gunsmithing services. Manufacturers may adopt the serial number or other identifying markings previously placed on a firearm by a qualified manufacturer, importer, or dealer, provided the manufacturer is performing services as a gunsmith (as defined in § 478.11 of this subchapter) on existing firearms not for sale or distribution.

4.
i.Firearm muffler or silencer parts transferred between qualified manufacturers for further manufacture or to complete new devices. Manufacturers qualified under this part may transfer a part defined as a muffler or silencer to another qualified manufacturer without immediately identifying or registering such part provided that it is for further manufacture ( i.e., machining, coating, etc. ) or manufacturing a complete muffler or silencer device. Once the new device with such part is completed, the manufacturer who completes the device shall identify and register it in the manner and within the period specified in this part for a complete muffler or silencer device.

ii.Firearm muffler or silencer replacement parts transferred to qualified manufacturers or dealers to repair existing devices. Manufacturers qualified under this part may transfer a replacement part defined as a muffler or silencer other than a frame or receiver to a qualified manufacturer or dealer without identifying or registering such part provided that it is for repairing a complete muffler or silencer device that was previously identified and registered in accordance with this part and part 478.

5.FRAMES OR RECEIVERS DESIGNED BEFORE AUGUST 24, 2022. Manufacturers and importers may continue to identify the same component of a firearm defined as a frame or receiver as it existed before August 24, 2022 with the same information required to be marked by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section that were in effect prior to that date, and any rules necessary to ensure such identification shall remain effective for that purpose. Any frame or receiver with a new design manufactured after August 24, 2022 must be marked with the identifying information and within the period prescribed by this section. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “new design” means that the design of the existing frame or receiver has been functionally modified or altered, as distinguished from performing a cosmetic process that adds to or changes the decoration of the frame or receiver ( e.g., painting or engraving), or by adding or replacing stocks, barrels, or accessories to the frame or receiver.

c.Voluntary classification of firearms. The Director may issue a determination (classification) to a person whether an item, including a kit, is a firearm as defined in this part upon receipt of a written request or form prescribed by the Director. Each such voluntary request or form submitted shall be executed under the penalties of perjury with a complete and accurate description of the item or kit, the name and address of the manufacturer or importer thereof, and a sample of such item or kit for examination. A firearm sample must include all accessories and attachments relevant to such classification as each classification is limited to the firearm in the configuration submitted. Each request for classification of a partially complete, disassembled, or nonfunctional item or kit must contain any associated templates, jigs, molds, equipment, or tools that are made available by the seller or distributor of the item or kit to the purchaser or recipient of the item or kit, and any instructions, guides, or marketing materials if they will be made available by the seller or distributor with the item or kit. Upon completion of the examination, the Director may return the sample to the person who made the request unless a determination is made that return of the sample would be or place the person in violation of law. Except for the classification of a specific component as the frame or receiver of a particular weapon, a determination made by the Director under this paragraph shall not be deemed by any person to be applicable to or authoritative with respect to any other sample, design, model, or configuration.

§ 479.103 Registration of firearms manufactured.
Each manufacturer qualified under this part shall file with the Director an accurate notice on Form 2 (Firearms), Notice of Firearms Manufactured or Imported, executed under the penalties of perjury, to show his manufacture of firearms. The notice shall set forth the name and address of the manufacturer, identify his special (occupational) tax stamp and Federal firearms license, and show the date of manufacture, the type, model, length of barrel, overall length, caliber, gauge or size, serial numbers, and other marks of identification of the firearms he manufactures, and the place where the manufactured firearms will be kept. Except as provided in § 479.102(b)(4), all firearms manufactured by him during a single day shall be included on one notice, Form 2 (Firearms), filed by the manufacturer no later than the close of the next business day. The manufacturer shall prepare the notice, Form 2 (Firearms), in duplicate, file the original notice as prescribed herein and keep the copy with the records required by subpart I of this part at the premises covered by his special (occupational) tax stamp. Receipt of the notice, Form 2 (Firearms), by the Director shall effectuate the registration of the firearms listed on that notice. The requirements of this part relating to the transfer of a firearm are applicable to transfers by qualified manufacturers.

§ 479.104 Registration of firearms by certain governmental entities.
Any State, any political subdivision thereof, or any official police organization of such a government entity engaged in criminal investigations, which acquires for official use a firearm not registered to it, such as by abandonment or by forfeiture, will register such firearm with the Director by filing Form 10 (Firearms), Registration of Firearms Acquired by Certain Governmental Entities, and such registration shall become a part of the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record. The application shall identify the applicant, describe each firearm covered by the application, show the location where each firearm usually will be kept, and, if the firearm is unserviceable, the application shall show how the firearm was made unserviceable. This section shall not apply to a firearm merely being held for use as evidence in a criminal proceeding. The Form 10 (Firearms) shall be executed in duplicate in accordance with the instructions thereon. Upon registering the firearm, the Director shall return the original Form 10 (Firearms) to the registrant with notification thereon that registration of the firearm has been made. The registration of any firearm under this section is for official use only and a subsequent transfer will be approved only to other governmental entities for official use.

§ 479.105 Transfer and possession of machine guns.
a.General. As provided by 26 U.S.C. 5812 and 26 U.S.C. 5822, an application to make or transfer a firearm shall be denied if the making, transfer, receipt, or possession of the firearm would place the maker or transferee in violation of law. Section 922(o), Title 18, U.S.C., makes it unlawful for any person to transfer or possess a machine gun, except a transfer to or by, or possession by or under the authority of, the United States or any department or agency thereof or a State, or a department, agency, or political subdivision thereof; or any lawful transfer or lawful possession of a machine gun that was lawfully possessed before May 19, 1986. Therefore, notwithstanding any other provision of this part, no application to make, transfer, or import a machine gun will be approved except as provided by this section.

b.Machine guns lawfully possessed prior to May 19, 1986. A machine gun possessed in compliance with the provisions of this part prior to May 19, 1986, may continue to be lawfully possessed by the person to whom the machine gun is registered and may, upon compliance with the provisions of this part, be lawfully transferred to and possessed by the transferee.

c.Importation and manufacture. Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part, importers and manufacturers qualified under this part may import and manufacture machine guns on or after May 19, 1986, for sale or distribution to any department or agency of the United States or any State or political subdivision thereof, or for use by dealers qualified under this part as sales samples as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The registration of such machine guns under this part and their subsequent transfer shall be conditioned upon and restricted to the sale or distribution of such weapons for the official use of Federal, State or local governmental entities. Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part, manufacturers qualified under this part may manufacture machine guns on or after May 19, 1986, for exportation in compliance with the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) and regulations prescribed thereunder by the Department of State.

d.Dealer sales samples. Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part, applications to transfer and register a machine gun manufactured or imported on or after May 19, 1986, to dealers qualified under this part will be approved if it is established by specific information the expected governmental customers who would require a demonstration of the weapon, information as to the availability of the machine gun to fill subsequent orders, and letters from governmental entities expressing a need for a particular model or interest in seeing a demonstration of a particular weapon. Applications to transfer more than one machine gun of a particular model to a dealer must also establish the dealer's need for the quantity of samples sought to be transferred.

e.The making of machine guns on or after May 19, 1986. Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part, applications to make and register machine guns on or after May 19, 1986, for the benefit of a Federal, State or local governmental entity (e.g., an invention for possible future use of a governmental entity or the making of a weapon in connection with research and development on behalf of such an entity) will be approved if it is established by specific information that the machine gun is particularly suitable for use by Federal, State or local governmental entities and that the making of the weapon is at the request and on behalf of such an entity.

f.Discontinuance of business. Since section 922(o), Title 18, U.S.C., makes it unlawful to transfer or possess a machine gun except as provided in the law, any qualified manufacturer, importer, or dealer intending to discontinue business shall, prior to going out of business, transfer in compliance with the provisions of this part any machine gun manufactured or imported after May 19, 1986, to a Federal, State or local governmental entity, qualified manufacturer, qualified importer, or, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, dealer qualified to possess such, machine gun.

§ 479.111 Procedure.
a.No firearm shall be imported or brought into the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction unless the person importing or bringing in the firearm establishes to the satisfaction of the Director that the firearm to be imported or brought in is being imported or brought in for:

1.The use of the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof or any State or possession or any political subdivision thereof; or

2.Scientific or research purposes; or

3.Testing or use as a model by a registered manufacturer or solely for use as a sample by a registered importer or registered dealer.

The burden of proof is affirmatively on any person importing or bringing the firearm into the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction to show that the firearm is being imported or brought in under one of the above paragraphs. Any person desiring to import or bring a firearm into the United States under this paragraph shall file with the Director an application on Form 6 (Firearms), Application and Permit for Importation of Firearms, Ammunition and Implements of War, in triplicate, executed under the penalties of perjury. The application shall show the information required by subpart G of Part 478 of this chapter. A detailed explanation of why the importation of the firearm falls within the standards set out in this paragraph shall be attached to the application. The person seeking to import or bring in the firearm will be notified of the approval or disapproval of his application. If the application is approved, the original Form 6 (Firearms) will be returned to the applicant showing such approval and he will present the approved application, Form 6 (Firearms), to the Customs officer at the port of importation. The approval of an application to import a firearm shall be automatically terminated at the expiration of two years from the date of approval unless, upon request, it is further extended by the Director. If the firearm described in the approved application is not imported prior to the expiration of the approval, the Director shall be so notified. Customs officers will not permit release of a firearm from Customs custody, except for exportation, unless covered by an application which has been approved by the Director and which is currently effective. The importation or bringing in of a firearm not covered by an approved application may subject the person responsible to civil and criminal liabilities. (26 U.S.C. 5861, 5871, and 5872.)

b.Part 478 of this chapter also contains requirements and procedures for the importation of firearms into the United States. A firearm may not be imported into the United States under this part unless those requirements and procedures are also complied with by the person importing the firearm.

c.The provisions of this subpart shall not be construed as prohibiting the return to the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction of a firearm by a person who can establish to the satisfaction of Customs that (1) the firearm was taken out of the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction by such person, (2) the firearm is registered to that person, and (3) if appropriate, the authorization required by Part 478 of this chapter for the transportation of such a firearm in interstate or foreign commerce has been obtained by such person.

§ 479.112 Registration of imported firearms.
a.Each importer shall file with the Director an accurate notice on Form 2 (Firearms), Notice of Firearms Manufactured or Imported, executed under the penalties of perjury, showing the importation of a firearm. The notice shall set forth the name and address of the importer, identify the importer's special (occupational) tax stamp and Federal firearms license, and show the import permit number, the date of release from Customs custody, the type, model, length of barrel, overall length, caliber, gauge or size, serial number, and other marks of identification of the firearm imported, and the place where the imported firearm will be kept. The Form 2 (Firearms) covering an imported firearm shall be filed by the importer no later than fifteen (15) days from the date the firearm was released from Customs custody. The importer shall prepare the notice, Form 2 (Firearms), in duplicate, file the original return as prescribed herein, and keep the copy with the records required by subpart I of this part at the premises covered by the special (occupational) tax stamp. The timely receipt by the Director of the notice, Form 2 (Firearms), and the timely receipt by the Director of the copy of Form 6A (Firearms), Release and Receipt of Imported Firearms, Ammunition and Implements of War, required by § 478.112 of this chapter, covering the weapon reported on the Form 2 (Firearms) by the qualified importer, shall effectuate the registration of the firearm to the importer.

b.The requirements of this part relating to the transfer of a firearm are applicable to the transfer of imported firearms by a qualified importer or any other person.

c.Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part, an application, Form 6 (Firearms), to import a firearm by an importer or dealer qualified under this part, for use as a sample in connection with sales of such firearms to Federal, State or local governmental entities, will be approved if it is established by specific information attached to the application that the firearm is suitable or potentially suitable for use by such entities. Such information must show why a sales sample of a particular firearm is suitable for such use and the expected governmental customers who would require a demonstration of the firearm. Information as to the availability of the firearm to fill subsequent orders and letters from governmental entities expressing a need for a particular model or interest in seeing a demonstration of a particular firearm would establish suitability for governmental use. Applications to import more than one firearm of a particular model for use as a sample by an importer or dealer must also establish the importer's or dealer's need for the quantity of samples sought to be imported.

d.Subject to compliance with the provisions of this part, an application, Form 6 (Firearms), to import a firearm by an importer or dealer qualified under this part, for use as a sample in connection with sales of such firearms to Federal, State or local governmental entities, will be approved if it is established by specific information attached to the application that the firearm is particularly suitable for use by such entities. Such information must show why a sales sample of a particular firearm is suitable for such use and the expected governmental customers who would require a demonstration of the firearm. Information as to the availability of the firearm to fill subsequent orders and letters from governmental entities expressing a need for a particular model or interest in seeing a demonstration of a particular firearm would establish suitability for governmental use. Applications to import more than one firearm of a particular model for use as a sample by an importer or dealer must also establish the importer's or dealer's need for the quantity of samples sought to be imported.

§ 479.113 Conditional importation.
The Director shall permit the conditional importation or bringing into the United States of any firearm for the purpose of examining and testing the firearm in connection with making a determination as to whether the importation or bringing in of such firearm will be authorized under this subpart. An application under this section shall be filed on Form 6 (Firearms), in triplicate, with the Director. The Director may impose conditions upon any importation under this section including a requirement that the firearm be shipped directly from Customs custody to the Director and that the person importing or bringing in the firearm must agree to either export the weapon or destroy it if a final determination is made that it may not be imported or brought in under this subpart. A firearm so imported or brought into the United States may be released from Customs custody in the manner prescribed by the conditional authorization of the Director.

§ 479.114 Application and permit for exportation of firearms.
Any person desiring to export a firearm without payment of the transfer tax must file with the Director an application on Form 9 (Firearms), Application and Permit for Exportation of Firearms, in quadruplicate, for a permit providing for deferment of tax liability. Part 1 of the application shall show the name and address of the foreign consignee, number of firearms covered by the application, the intended port of exportation, a complete description of each firearm to be exported, the name, address, State Department license number (or date of application if not issued), and identification of the special (occupational) tax stamp of the transferor. Part 1 of the application shall be executed under the penalties of perjury by the transferor and shall be supported by a certified copy of a written order or contract of sale or other evidence showing that the firearm is to be shipped to a foreign designation. Where it is desired to make a transfer free of tax to another person who in turn will export the firearm, the transferor shall likewise file an application supported by evidence that the transfer will start the firearm in course of exportation, except, however, that where such transferor and exporter are registered special-taxpayers the transferor will not be required to file an application on Form 9 (Firearms).

§ 479.115 Action by Director.
If the application is acceptable, the Director will execute the permit, Part 2 of Form 9 (Firearms), to export the firearm described on the form and return three copies thereof to the applicant. Issuance of the permit by the Director will suspend assertion of tax liability for a period of six (6) months from the date of issuance. If the application is disapproved, the Director will indicate thereon the reason for such action and return the forms to the applicant.

§ 479.116 Procedure by exporter.
Shipment may not be made until the permit, Form 9 (Firearms), is received from the Director. If exportation is to be made by means other than by parcel post, two copies of the form must be addressed to the District Director of Customs at the port of exportation, and must precede or accompany the shipment in order to permit appropriate inspection prior to lading. If exportation is to be made by parcel post, one copy of the form must be presented to the postmaster at the office receiving the parcel who will execute Part 4 of such form and return the form to the exporter for transmittal to the Director. In the event exportation is not effected, all copies of the form must be immediately returned to the Director for cancellation.

§ 479.117 Action by Customs.
Upon receipt of a permit, Form 9 (Firearms), in duplicate, authorizing the exportation of firearms, the District Director of Customs may order such inspection as deemed necessary prior to lading of the merchandise. If satisfied that the shipment is proper and the information contained in the permit to export is in agreement with information shown in the shipper's export declaration, the District Director of Customs will, after the merchandise has been duly exported, execute the certificate of exportation (Part 3 of Form 9 (Firearms)). One copy of the form will be retained with the shipper's export declaration and the remaining copy thereof will be transmitted to the Director.

§ 479.118 Proof of exportation.
Within a six-month's period from date of issuance of the permit to export firearms, the exporter shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Director (a) the certificate of exportation (Part 3 of Form 9 (Firearms)) executed by the District Director of Customs as provided in § 479.117, or (b) the certificate of mailing by parcel post (Part 4 of Form 9 (Firearms)) executed by the postmaster of the post office receiving the parcel containing the firearm, or (c) a certificate of landing executed by a Customs officer of the foreign country to which the firearm is exported, or (d) a sworn statement of the foreign consignee covering the receipt of the firearm, or (e) the return receipt, or a reproduced copy thereof, signed by the addressee or his agent, where the shipment of a firearm was made by insured or registered parcel post. Issuance of a permit to export a firearm and furnishing of evidence establishing such exportation under this section will relieve the actual exporter and the person selling to the exporter for exportation from transfer tax liability. Where satisfactory evidence of exportation of a firearm is not furnished within the stated period, the transfer tax will be assessed.

§ 479.119 Transportation of firearms to effect exportation.
Notwithstanding any provision of § 478.28 of this chapter, it shall not be required that authorization be obtained from the Director for the transportation in interstate or foreign commerce of a firearm in order to effect the exportation of a firearm authorized under the provisions of this subpart.

§ 479.120 Refunds.
Where, after payment of tax by the manufacturer, a firearm is exported, and satisfactory proof of exportation (see § 479.118) is furnished, a claim for refund may be submitted on Form 843 (see § 479.172). If the manufacturer waives all claim for the amount to be refunded, the refund shall be made to the exporter. A claim for refund by an exporter of tax paid by a manufacturer should be accompanied by waiver of the manufacturer and proof of tax payment by the latter.

§ 479.121 Insular possessions.
Transfers of firearms to persons in the insular possessions of the United States are exempt from transfer tax, provided title in cases involving change of title (and custody or control, in cases not involving change of title), does not pass to the transferee or his agent in the United States. However, such exempt transactions must be covered by approved permits and supporting documents corresponding to those required in the case of firearms exported to foreign countries (see §§ 479.114 and 479.115), except that the Director may vary the requirements herein set forth in accordance with the requirements of the governing authority of the insular possession. Shipments to the insular possessions will not be authorized without compliance with the requirements of the governing authorities thereof. In the case of a nontaxable transfer to a person in such insular possession, the exemption extends only to such transfer and not to prior transfers.

§ 479.122 Requirements.
a.Persons engaged in the business of importing firearms are required by the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) to register with the Director. (See Part 447 of this chapter.)

b.Persons engaged in the business of exporting firearms caliber .22 or larger are subject to the requirements of a license issued by the Secretary of State. Application for such license should be made to the Office of Munitions Control, Department of State, Washington, DC 20502, prior to exporting firearms.

§ 479.131 Records.
For the purposes of this part, each manufacturer, importer, and dealer in firearms shall keep and maintain such records regarding the manufacture, importation, acquisition (whether by making, transfer, or otherwise), receipt, and disposition of firearms as are prescribed, and in the manner and place required, by part 478 of this chapter. In addition, each manufacturer, importer, and dealer shall maintain, in chronological order, at his place of business a separate record consisting of the documents required by this part showing the registration of any firearm to him. If firearms owned or possessed by a manufacturer, importer, or dealer are stored or kept on premises other than the place of business shown on his special (occupational) tax stamp, the record establishing registration shall show where such firearms are stored or kept. The records required by this part shall be readily accessible for inspection at all reasonable times by ATF officers.

§ 479.141 Stolen or lost firearms.
Whenever any registered firearm is stolen or lost, the person losing possession thereof will, immediately upon discovery of such theft or loss, make a report to the Director showing the following:

a.Name and address of the person in whose name the firearm is registered, (b) kind of firearm, (c) serial number, (d) model, (e) caliber, (f) manufacturer of the firearm, (g) date and place of theft or loss, and (h) complete statement of facts and circumstances surrounding such theft or loss.

§ 479.142 Stolen or lost documents.
When any Forms 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6A, or 10 (Firearms) evidencing possession of a firearm is stolen, lost, or destroyed, the person losing possession will immediately upon discovery of the theft, loss, or destruction report the matter to the Director. The report will show in detail the circumstances of the theft, loss, or destruction and will include all known facts which may serve to identify the document. Upon receipt of the report, the Director will make such investigation as appears appropriate and may issue a duplicate document upon such conditions as the circumstances warrant.

§ 479.151 Failure to make returns: Substitute returns.
If any person required by this part to make returns shall fail or refuse to make any such return within the time prescribed by this part or designated by the Director, then the return shall be made by an ATF officer upon inspection of the books, but the making of such return by an ATF officer shall not relieve the person from any default or penalty incurred by reason of failure to make such return.

§ 479.152 Penalties (records and returns).
Any person failing to keep records or make returns, or making, or causing the making of, a false entry on any application, return or record, knowing such entry to be false, is liable to fine and imprisonment as provided in section 5871, I.R.C.

§ 479.161 National Firearms Act stamps.
“National Firearms Act” stamps evidencing payment of the transfer tax or tax on the making of a firearm are maintained by the Director. The remittance for purchase of the appropriate tax stamp shall be submitted with the application. Upon approval of the application, the Director will cause the appropriate tax to be paid by affixing the appropriate stamp to the application.

§ 479.162 Stamps authorized.
Adhesive stamps of the $5 and $200 denomination, bearing the words “National Firearms Act,” have been prepared and only such stamps shall be used for the payment of the transfer tax and for the tax on the making of a firearm.

§ 479.163 Reuse of stamps prohibited.
A stamp once affixed to one document cannot lawfully be removed and affixed to another. Any person willfully reusing such a stamp shall be subject to the penalty prescribed by 26 U.S.C. 7208.

§ 479.171 Redemption of or allowance for stamps.
Where a National Firearms Act stamp is destroyed, mutilated or rendered useless after purchase, and before liability has been incurred, such stamp may be redeemed by giving another stamp in lieu thereof. Claim for redemption of the stamp should be filed on ATF Form 2635 (5620.8) with the Director. Such claim shall be accompanied by the stamp or by a satisfactory explanation of the reasons why the stamp cannot be returned, and shall be filed within 3 years after the purchase of the stamp.

§ 479.172 Refunds.
As indicated in this part, the transfer tax or tax on the making of a firearm is ordinarily paid by the purchase and affixing of stamps, while special tax stamps are issued in payment of special (occupational) taxes. However, in exceptional cases, transfer tax, tax on the making of firearms, and/or special (occupational) tax may be paid pursuant to assessment. Claims for refunds of such taxes, paid pursuant to assessment, shall be filed on ATF Form 2635 (5620.8) within 3 years next after payment of the taxes. Such claims shall be filed with the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch serving the region in which the tax was paid. (For provisions relating to hand-carried documents and manner of filing, see 26 CFR 301.6091-1(b) and 301.6402-2(a).) When an applicant to make or transfer a firearm wishes a refund of the tax paid on an approved application where the firearm was not made pursuant to an approved Form 1 (Firearms) or transfer of the firearm did not take place pursuant to an approved Form 4 (Firearms), the applicant shall file a claim for refund of the tax on ATF Form 2635 (5620.8) with the Director. The claim shall be accompanied by the approved application bearing the stamp and an explanation why the tax liability was not incurred. Such claim shall be filed within 3 years next after payment of the tax.

§ 479.181 Penalties.
Any person who violates or fails to comply with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53 shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties imposed under 26 U.S.C. 5871.

§ 479.182 Forfeitures.
Any firearm involved in any violation of the provisions of 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53, shall be subject to seizure, and forfeiture under the internal revenue laws: Provided, however, That the disposition of forfeited firearms shall be in conformance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 5872. In addition, any vessel, vehicle or aircraft used to transport, carry, convey or conceal or possess any firearm with respect to which there has been committed any violation of any provision of 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53, or the regulations in this part issued pursuant thereto, shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture under the Customs laws, as provided by the act of August 9, 1939 (49 U.S.C. App., Chapter 11).

§ 479.191 Applicability of other provisions of internal revenue laws.
All of the provisions of the internal revenue laws not inconsistent with the provisions of 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53 shall be applicable with respect to the taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. 5801, 5811, and 5821 (see 26 U.S.C. 5846).

§ 479.192 Commerce in firearms and ammunition.
For provisions relating to commerce in firearms and ammunition, including the movement of destructive devices, machine guns, short-barreled shotguns, or short-barreled rifles, see 18 U.S.C. Chapter 44, and Part 478 of this chapter issued pursuant thereto.

§ 479.193 Arms Export Control Act.
For provisions relating to the registration and licensing of persons engaged in the business of manufacturing, importing or exporting arms, ammunition, or implements of war, see the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778), and the regulations issued pursuant thereto. (See also Part 447 of this chapter.)

