Secure gun storage or safety device.

a.A device that, when installed on a firearm, is designed to prevent the firearm from being operated without first deactivating the device;

b.A device incorporated into the design of the firearm that is designed to prevent the operation of the firearm by anyone not having access to the device; or

c.A safe, gun safe, gun case, lock box, or other device that is designed to be or can be used to store a firearm and that is designed to be unlocked only by means of a key, a combination, or other similar means.

Semiautomatic assault weapon.

a.Any of the firearms, or copies or duplicates of the firearms in any caliber, known as:

1.Norinco, Mitchell, and Poly Technologies Avtomat Kalashnikovs (all models),

2.Action Arms Israeli Military Industries UZI and Galil,

3.Beretta Ar70 (SC-70),

4.Colt AR-15,

5.Fabrique National FN/FAL, FN/LAR, and FNC,

6.SWD M-10, M-11, M-11/9, and M-12,

7.Steyr AUG,

8.INTRATEC TEC-9, TEC-DC9 and TEC-22, and

9.Revolving cylinder shotguns, such as (or similar to) the Street Sweeper and Striker 12;

b.A semiautomatic rifle that has an ability to accept a detachable magazine and has at least 2 of—

1.A folding or telescoping stock,

2.A pistol grip that protrudes conspicuously beneath the action of the weapon,

3.A bayonet mount,

4.A flash suppressor or threaded barrel designed to accommodate a flash suppressor, and

5.A grenade launcher;

c.A semiautomatic pistol that has an ability to accept a detachable magazine and has at least 2 of—

1.An ammunition magazine that attaches to the pistol outside of the pistol grip,

2.A threaded barrel capable of accepting a barrel extender, flash suppressor, forward handgrip, or silencer,

3.A shroud that is attached to, or partially or completely encircles, the barrel and that permits the shooter to hold the firearm with the nontrigger hand without being burned,

4.A manufactured weight of 50 ounces or more when the pistol is unloaded, and

5.A semiautomatic version of an automatic firearm; and

d.A semiautomatic shotgun that has at least 2 of—

1.A folding or telescoping stock,

2.A pistol grip that protrudes conspicuously beneath the action of the weapon,

3.A fixed magazine capacity in excess of 5 rounds, and

4.An ability to accept a detachable magazine.

Semiautomatic pistol.
Any repeating pistol which utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.

Semiautomatic rifle.
Any repeating rifle which utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.

Semiautomatic shotgun.
Any repeating shotgun which utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.

Short-barreled rifle.
A rifle having one or more barrels less than 16 inches in length, and any weapon made from a rifle, whether by alteration, modification, or otherwise, if such weapon, as modified, has an overall length of less than 26 inches.

Short-barreled shotgun.
A shotgun having one or more barrels less than 18 inches in length, and any weapon made from a shotgun, whether by alteration, modification, or otherwise, if such weapon as modified has an overall length of less than 26 inches.

Shotgun.
A weapon designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be fired from the shoulder, and designed or redesigned and made or remade to use the energy of an explosive to fire through a smooth bore either a number of ball shot or a single projectile for each single pull of the trigger.

State.
A State of the United States. The term shall include the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the possessions of the United States (not including the Canal Zone).

State of residence.
The State in which an individual resides. An individual resides in a State if he or she is present in a State with the intention of making a home in that State. If an individual is on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces, the individual's State of residence is the State in which his or her permanent duty station is located, as stated in 18 U.S.C. 921(b). The following are examples that illustrate this definition:

EXAMPLE 1.
A maintains a home in State X. A travels to State Y on a hunting, fishing, business, or other type of trip. A does not become a resident of State Y by reason of such trip.

EXAMPLE 2.
A maintains a home in State X and a home in State Y. A resides in State X except for weekends or the summer months of the year and in State Y for the weekends or the summer months of the year. During the time that A actually resides in State X, A is a resident of State X, and during the time that A actually resides in State Y, A is a resident of State Y.

EXAMPLE 3.
A, an alien, travels to the United States on a three-week vacation to State X. A does not have a state of residence in State X because A does not have the intention of making a home in State X while on vacation. This is true regardless of the length of the vacation.

EXAMPLE 4.
A, an alien, travels to the United States to work for three years in State X. A rents a home in State X, moves his personal possessions into the home, and his family resides with him in the home. A intends to reside in State X during the 3-year period of his employment. A is a resident of State X.

Unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance.
A person who uses a controlled substance and has lost the power of self-control with reference to the use of controlled substance; and any person who is a current user of a controlled substance in a manner other than as prescribed by a licensed physician. Such use is not limited to the use of drugs on a particular day, or within a matter of days or weeks before, but rather that the unlawful use has occurred recently enough to indicate that the individual is actively engaged in such conduct. A person may be an unlawful current user of a controlled substance even though the substance is not being used at the precise time the person seeks to acquire a firearm or receives or possesses a firearm. An inference of current use may be drawn from evidence of a recent use or possession of a controlled substance or a pattern of use or possession that reasonably covers the present time, e.g., a conviction for use or possession of a controlled substance within the past year; multiple arrests for such offenses within the past 5 years if the most recent arrest occurred within the past year; or persons found through a drug test to use a controlled substance unlawfully, provided that the test was administered within the past year. For a current or former member of the Armed Forces, an inference of current use may be drawn from recent disciplinary or other administrative action based on confirmed drug use, e.g., court-martial conviction, nonjudicial punishment, or an administrative discharge based on drug use or drug rehabilitation failure.

Unserviceable firearm.
A firearm which is incapable of discharging a shot by means of an explosive and is incapable of being readily restored to a firing condition.

U.S.C.
The United States Code.